This is Jockel Podcast number 93 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Wilink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
I was lucky and blessed to have had the honor to serve in the United States military during a time of war.
I thought alongside US Army soldiers, sailors and Marines on violent battlefields.
And I saw with my own eyes my generation of warriors uphold the proud tradition of the American fighting man.
America's military has a storied history of bravery, ingenuity and grit.
But it's most important tradition is the tradition of victory.
America's military wins wars. It is as simple as that.
If our nation deems it morally right and excessively necessary, then our military is unstoppable.
Of course, and rightfully so, the credit for victory is often given to the men on the front lines.
To those that are taking the fight to our nation's enemies in close combat.
That credit is well deserved.
But it is not the only credit that needs to be bestowed.
Because it is a simple fact that many of the most critical victories in America's history were won not only on distant bloody battlefields,
but were also won right here at home.
In fact, there are fields and farms.
You see, our ability to produce, to design, grow, build and manufacture has been just important to our nation's victories as our ability to fight.
And throughout history, when Americans marched to war, we marched wearing boots made by American hands.
We wore uniforms that were cut and sewn in factories like this one.
Our body armor, helmets, and weapons have been the products of American work ethic, skill, and determination.
The best planes, ships, and vehicles in the world.
They carry us to war and then support us on the battlefield, they only exist because Americans built them.
Without the American worker, there can be no American soldier.
So, let us never forget that the freedom we cherish so dearly is a gift.
Not only from our American service men and women, but it is also a gift from the American worker.
The American worker, who toils in fields, in factories, in shipyards, and on job sites.
The American worker, who gets up day after day after day, not only to build and create products.
But also to build our economy, the strongest economy in the world, which gives us unmasked influence.
And gives our great nation the ability to make the world a better place.
With that knowledge, I could not be prouder to stand here today and be a part of this opening.
Not be prouder to be a part of this company, origin, which like America itself.
We'll succeed because of the power of the American worker.
It will succeed because of the power of American grit.
An origin USA will succeed because of the unmasked power of the American dream.
And I would like to thank all of you, especially America's workforce for making this dream possible.
And that is a speech that I gave today in a town called Farmington Main.
And I was at the opening of the new origin USA factory.
Now, as I've been saying, we are now in league with origin USA.
And tonight, I have with me, our new partner and our new friend Pete Roberts, who, as you will see, has shown some pretty incredible fortitude in the business world.
And who I believe is just getting warmed up.
So, Mr. Pete Roberts, founder of Origin USA, Black Belt and Giu Jitsu, by the way.
And also, Black Belt in making things happen.
Welcome to the show, man.
I ordered to be here. Everything you just said, man, just captures everything I feel in my heart and mind for sure.
And here in that speech live was phenomenal.
You know, it was awesome walking around the factory and meeting people, meeting the workers here.
I mean, we came in and Jill, she was, she was, it's a week of vacation of what she's doing.
She's in here working.
And you know, just, and I wasn't even really didn't really know what I was going to say,
but after coming up here, meeting her, seeing the rest of the people grinding to make this happen.
Yeah, I realized that I realized exactly what I was going to say.
I was going to talk about the fact that literally, mental in the battlefield, your, your, your propelled there by American workers.
And that's what this, that's what this represents.
And, you know, we'll get into how all this kind of came together in this kind of perfect storm.
Yeah, we'll get there, but we'll get there in a little while.
Okay.
Because first we got to know a little about a bit about you and your crazy ass, which I say with all, you know, in the most complimentary possible way.
Yeah, man.
So, tell us about just growing up, like, get me from like, birth to high school.
What was that all about?
Absolutely.
So, and I'll start it in the sport.
That's, I'm for real.
Real Spartan blood.
For real.
Yeah, I know my, my ass.
What's your, what's your, because Robert's isn't no angelic, and some Greek actually,
Yeah, mom's in it.
Yeah, she's Greek.
So, and she's clearly Greek, because I'm not clearly Greek.
And she made that buckle a lot today.
Yeah.
No, I thought she might pull out a Spartan sword at some point.
It like attacked me.
Yeah.
Which I was the least.
Cool.
And she's pulled out a big thing of buckle.
Yeah.
And it's like sugar coated.
You don't care.
Did you feel guilty of that?
No.
I wanted more.
Yeah.
I know you came over like, where's all the buckle?
I'm like, it's gone.
But I looked over there's six pieces left.
I had four of them.
Did you?
That's awesome.
No, I'm a half-breed.
Just half Spartan.
So, no, yeah, man.
I mean, like, the rest of America, you know, my, my,
grandparents, emigrated from Sparta.
Greece.
And the early 1900s, great-grand.
Live to 105 legit credit.
Yes.
My, he's even on Jockelway TV.
He's some other shoes from Gordon.
I'm going through it.
She, yeah.
No, she didn't need to be.
She had the Mediterranean diet.
No, it's not.
I even my son got to meet her.
But she lived for a long time.
But yeah.
So, from a young age, I got to see the American dream
from my mom's side of the family, you know.
When we were kids, I was born down in Massachusetts,
Gloucester.
And moved up here when I was young,
she had my mom want to get myself and my three siblings.
Out of Massachusetts and into the woods,
just because she saw some shifts happening,
she didn't like.
So, she brought us up here and said,
make a go of it, basically.
And what, what business or whatever, what did they, what did you,
oh, why saw, I got to see my,
my family built some pretty, pretty cool businesses
down in Massachusetts. So, being an entrepreneur
was something I always admired.
But didn't realize I wanted to do that
until a little later in life.
But my, my family down there,
my grandfather had a sub shop, you know,
super-sug.
For those of you, I don't know,
there's, that's one of those things.
We're, they call it different things across America.
Yeah.
A sub in New England is the same thing as a subway sandwich.
Right, right.
Also in New England, you call it a grinder.
Do you call it a grinder?
A grinder would be, I think, technically.
Ah, no, that's not a hot sandwich.
That's hogey.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, hogey's a more poor boy.
Oh, no.
That's a more poor boy.
Yeah.
Another, another, another, a more poor boy.
So, sub.
So, so, grandad on the sub shop.
A few, a few sub, which is very successful with the sandwich making.
Nice.
I got, I got to see that.
My cousin's built a big multi, multi,
a million dollar company.
And I, and I had to watch this from away,
because I moved up to here to Maine when I was eight years old.
So, I wasn't cultured in that at all.
In the business world.
I didn't have anybody to teach me about business.
And I just got to see it and, and, and not be directly part of it,
which I always wanted to be, you know,
but I always looked up to them and, and what not.
And both from business perspective and athletics,
you know, they were very good athletics, my family,
and my uncles, cousins, and stuff.
So, I looked from afar up here in Maine in the woods,
and an old farmhouse down at dirt road with no neighbors.
Cows in a field.
Oh, yeah.
That's where I grew up.
And then high school, you, you said you, I know you're athletic.
What do you, how, how tall are you?
Six, three, and shrinking.
Six, three, and shrink, yeah, man.
And what's your, what are you walking around that right now?
Right now, I can tell you exactly.
Two, fifty, three point zero.
Yes.
But you played, what, what'd you play?
I, uh, in, in high school, three-squared athlete,
in college, football, division one for a couple of years.
Um, not the best experience of my life, learning experience,
but not the best.
Well, what, what, what wasn't the best experience in your life?
I, you know, I was, I was real good at it, football.
Uh-huh.
I was not passionate about it.
Um, but I still worked my ass off.
Because that's the thing, you were kind of, even though you were this big,
jock.
I was, you were also an artistic guy, right?
Right?
Art see, I was an artsy, artsy kid.
I got along with everybody, the, the, the, the jocks athletes,
all the artsy kids, you know,
I liked everybody, I could appreciate everybody's talents.
Were you like drawing, painting, or are you doing everything?
That, drawing, painting, sculpting, sculpting, everything.
Just doing everything.
Yeah.
And tackling people.
Getting tackle, play tight end.
Which, were you more passionate about art than you were about football?
For sure.
And so you're playing football, like, it, it, was it just one of those things where you,
okay, I'm good at it, and I'm getting a scholarship, so I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.
Yeah, so back in 1997, Berkinadurries, yeah.
Oh, back in the day.
Yes.
Yeah, no, it was, back in the day, some will remember hockey fans,
Maine's hockey team was phenomenal.
They had the career kids on there.
And they were, that that team took gifts.
And what happens when you get gifts and people find out sanctions.
So I went into college and they had like 10 scholarships.
So I didn't actually have a scholarship till my second year of college.
I kind of had to prove myself.
And I work my ass off.
And then I fell into the politics of college football.
And I saw the ugly side of the politics of college football.
And what are you talking about?
Because I'm the only guy sitting at the table that it had an apparently play college football.
It was football. It was busy in the teams.
Yeah, yeah.
What do you think?
What does that consist of?
Like you're trying to get to be in the certain position starting or is that what's
talking about?
Let's say like, OK, yeah.
So I was supposed to start my, I read,
I read, my freshman, I was supposed to start.
Tighten, got into a bar bra, right?
And during the summer couldn't play the first few games.
And it was me and one of my friends.
And we were both freshman.
And he was a big kid, local kid.
He ended playing in the NFL.
And we were kind of like fighting for the first spot on the depth chart.
And the depth chart for those of you who don't know is like kind of where you stand.
And you see your name on there.
And you see everyone else's name.
And you want to be the top guy.
Right?
So you bring that out for every position?
Oh, yeah.
Every position.
Check.
Yeah.
So a little pressure to perform.
And I stayed after my freshman, I put on 27 pounds of like hard earned muscle.
No illegal substances,
Scrots, McDonald's,
and Scrots.
They be like, go eat some food.
That McDonald's.
So what did you, what, what would you go from what weight to what weight?
And I came into college at like,
two,
it was like,
200 in like,
225 in you and a little less.
Oh, 10.
And then yeah,
and then just earned it.
earned it in the gym.
I remember my tight end coach coming up to me and saying,
hey, you know, Steve is his name.
He's like, he's out.
And he's like, you're going to be starting this first game.
And I'm like, shit.
I mean, I stayed, I stayed like, work my ass off.
You know, stayed during breaks and everything.
And I was a good athlete.
Yeah.
And what's cool is, you're actually going as hard as you can.
You weren't even that passionate at all, but I committed to it.
You just wanted to win.
Yes.
Yeah.
No, I do it.
You look at yourself in that depth chart.
Even if you don't necessarily like what you're doing,
you make the commitment and you drive.
And I didn't want to be number two.
You know, so it's super competitive college sports.
So anyways, the, my tight end coach,
like, you're starting the first game.
I'm like, yes.
Call all my family, call all my friends,
tell them what's up.
Make sure everybody has tickets.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I could day before the game.
The coach comes to me and says,
Pete, I gotta talk to you.
Nice to see him.
Okay? He's like, I just got in a huge argument with a head coach.
And you will not be starting in the football game.
I said, okay, why?
He goes,
basically told me politics.
My friend, still a friend of mine,
local kid.
He came in on a full ride.
Local kid, big kid,
had probably a better frame to build on.
And basically what the,
even though maybe,
you know, it's college.
We have different gifts.
The head coach shut it down and said,
nope, he's not starting.
My coach is like, he should start.
He's performing better.
You know, he's strong in the weight room.
Hand cleaning 300 pounds.
The kids ready to go.
He should be starting.
They got a huge fight.
Almost got fired.
The coach, my, my head and coach,
I'm scared fired.
He said, you'll be playing a lot in the game though.
But yeah, he'll be starting.
Guess how much playing time I saw.
No, zero.
So that was the first game of the season you said.
Yeah.
And so then what happens?
You grind out the rest of the season?
Yeah, man.
How's your attitude?
I worked my ass off and turned.
Turn, you kept grind to earn.
Did you ever start?
Here's the shitty thing.
I've already sounded pretty shitty.
Yeah, actually.
It's pretty shitty, dude.
Here's the shitty thing.
Man, I couldn't, I'm telling you,
I had football PTSD after this.
I didn't watch football for 10 years.
They put on television.
I'd walk out of the room.
I just hang out, do something else.
They'd be watching the games.
My son loves football.
My, my family loves football.
Couldn't do it.
I had like a, just not version to the sport to make a long story short.
My, this has been 45 minutes.
We haven't even made a pass.
Shut up.
Has it been?
Has it?
No, my, my, my, my scholarship, the money, like,
like some of the money hit your count, right?
And like, shit didn't kick in for like my
food and everything and like my coach, the head coach.
Who was a narcissistic guy?
Love coming to the weight room and just like waving his hair and you know,
I don't know what it's got.
You know what it's got.
Yeah, college money.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Great.
He's like, I'll take care of it.
Pete, let's find everything's happening.
Okay.
Weak later.
Coach still, this, this isn't, you know,
I'm, I'm on it.
I'm on it.
I'm talking with the AD.
It's everything's good.
Weak later.
Coach, it's still like, man, I'm stressing.
You know, like, I'm going to have to get a job, like,
what's up with this?
He goes, I need to talk to you my office.
Is it okay?
I sit down in his office.
Your scholarship money is not going to kick in.
Really?
I overgave.
Title IX had kicked in.
I'm going to get a job.
Title IX had kicked in, and he overgave.
Now, is he being truthful with me?
Or did he find a new recruit that was better?
Did he push me out?
Who knows?
I don't know why because the kid behind me ended up starting full back the next year.
Right?
So, maybe I got pushed out.
Maybe he overgave.
Back to the matter is that bastard lied to me.
I didn't fall through with his word.
And that will never happen again.
I will never surround myself with those types of people.
And that lesson I carry to this day.
I think about it a lot.
It's one of those moments in your life that kind of changes your life.
I said, you know, I'll tell you something.
I worked my balls off for you in this program.
I'm ready.
And this is what I get.
That excuse out out of the office.
I grabbed my cleats and then into my body Chad Rogers and walked out the door and didn't look back.
That was that.
So, that was your sophomore year.
Yeah, that would have been my red shirt.
It was right after my wrist.
Yeah, sophomore year.
Yeah.
So, what are you studying at this time?
Studying a new media.
Which was really new because remember the internet hit like 97.
The 80 became hot, right?
Really?
There's a data on that.
Yeah.
Pretty ambiguously.
Like you can call it 97.
Yeah.
That's when it became hot.
Like I think so.
Yeah.
For sure.
That's when it was like the internet.
Yeah.
Everybody need everybody.
What is it?
Yeah.
Net skating.
But you know, you could really surf the web.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, web sites and stuff.
Yeah.
So, I'm in and flat this flash hit.
It came out, back in media, all the stuff.
So anyways, I was into that.
I discovered the computer thing and fell in love with design on the computer.
And although I was a sculpture major, I used a well-dop crazy looking shit.
I actually zipped her to co-post.
Dude, I did.
For like my final project, you want to know what I did?
Yeah.
I built this big frigging zipper on this canvas.
And I erected it and I zipped it up the pole post.
I'm talking about the, like the, like the, like the, like a giant real zipper.
Real zipper.
You know, like the thing, the thing you hold the, yeah, that dude, it was this big.
I zipped my, my, my art teacher.
They allowed you to do that.
They'd have a choice.
I just went out and did it.
So it's down.
Yeah.
And what's that like street art?
I don't even know what I'm speaking.
I love art.
Yeah.
It was weird.
I think I got some of that frustration out of you for shivering it up.
Yeah.
I have never told anybody that.
Do something to my, my, my, my, my, my, my,
Did you get graded on it?
Yeah, dude.
So how did you not tell anybody?
Because what happened was, is I erected it in the practice field.
And my teacher, she walked over with me to look at it.
And she looked at me and she was, she said, a plus.
Wait, they should be, you did it.
Like you did in this, like you did in this, like,
She looked at me and she goes, she looked at me and she goes,
She said, what?
She, she didn't think it was possible.
Bro, when you said like I zippered my goal,
plus I'm sitting here thinking, what is this?
Some slang term that I don't know about.
Does that mean hanging toilet paper off of it?
Like, where does this mean?
It means zippering.
I wish I had a photo of it.
I wish you did.
We didn't have digital cameras back then.
Yeah, but that teacher was cool.
She was, I remember her name, but she was cool.
And you left it up for the practice.
Guys, when they shut up, pull it down.
She actually, she actually,
Toped pulled me aside one time and she's like,
you drive this class.
How, what you do and how you act,
everyone is going to follow basically.
She was, she was pretty cool,
but that is a gentle vengeance.
It's very much, I'll give you props.
zipper that zipper it done.
zipper it.
You wait, not that's happening.
I'll tell as a goal post.
Man, I think we should call it.
35 feet, 30 feet, probably more than,
like, the full go,
open.
That depends with the practice field.
It helps you.
It's full zipper.
I am not even kidding.
I put that, I put in the, and I built it out of,
like, wood-laminated band saw, like,
all the lugs and I had the 50 get the perfectly in that whole zipper part had the zip.
It was functional.
Yes.
It was a giant zipper.
That's good.
I love she's like, I told my teacher,
I was new.
She's like, impossible to make it function.
Okay, let's see.
Yeah.
That guy said it's 42.
That guy mentioned that earlier.
Yeah.
And at this time, what,
are you, what's like going on personally, personal life?
Do you want you with your high school sweet heart at the world?
Yeah, yeah.
So, I, my wife Amanda, my bride.
We got together.
We were 16, 15, 16,
through, through a difficult situation.
We became friends.
And we've been together for a sense.
We were drawn together by a difficult situation.
And you stayed together through college.
Absolutely.
And she wasn't looking at you like, like,
I need to get away from this guy.
Yeah, the zipper goes.
You know, she, she's very understanding.
I'm sharing it.
Yeah.
Yeah, you know, the court in line, like, you complete me.
Like, she, I tell people like,
she, if my glass is a little full,
she just dumped some out.
And if it's running a little dry, she puts it back in.
So, and she always has, you know what I mean?
So, she's brutally honest.
And, you know, she's like, my soulmate.
I, that's awesome that you guys were, you know,
I knew that.
But it's kind of cool that you guys did.
You've got to get it all that time.
Now, back to your, your major.
And now you're saying, I'm playing football.
Oh, no. You're sitting there in college.
Yep. You're studying new media, which no one knows anything about.
I don't even know anything about it.
And we actually hired the professors, my class.
Really?
We had a, we committee of students and we hired the frequent professors.
And so, and so then you're learning how to do what?
For build websites.
Yeah.
Stuff like this.
You're learning things like, uh,
It's what all like the first software hit you had like this Maya.
And you could do 3D animation.
They built like, I don't toy story and Maya or something.
You had like flash, macromedia.
Remember the flash websites, all the animation.
Yeah.
Stuff like that.
So we, I learned about that.
So how did you make the jump from that to going into business in that arena?
I was good at it.
And I was passionate about it.
And what happened is my sophomore year after I got on playing football.
I went right to a marketing agency.
Sold myself on the spot and got hired on the spot.
And I became their lead web developer.
And you're like 19.
I was 19 with blonde hair.
Nice.
Yep.
They were like, who is this kid?
For the record is when I was 19, I had blonde hair too.
No kid.
Yeah.
It's a lot of similarities.
That's cool.
Well, a lot of Hawaiians have blonde hair.
So.
So 19 with blonde hair, yeah, man.
I walked in and I just sold myself.
Okay.
So then how did that morph into your own business?
Yeah.
So I wasn't going to push job.
I take it if you're the lead at 19 years old.
Push job at 200 bucks a week, buddy.
Raking.
Which I needed to do.
Which was pretty legit for you though, right?
Yeah.
Because it was either that or the YMCA.
You know, and I did work at the Y.
But yeah.
I mean, it was.
I caught my teeth at this ad agency where I learned from this really good.
Graphic designer Brad, who started his career doing paste up.
So paste up is like when you're designing an ad, you actually have to take an exact.
So all the little tools you use when you're in like Photoshop and other programs.
Those are real tools, real life tools.
So he take like the knife and cut around the picture and then he put that.
And then like the typography.
So I cut my teeth under a real designer.
Not many people get that anymore.
So I learned from a master of design and how long did you stay at that ad agency?
I was there till I was 19, 20, 21, 3 years I think.
And then I moved back and I started my own company here.
And that was just in Sparado.
What made you say, you know what?
But you must have seen a pathway at the agency to take over or not even take over.
But just to move up the chain of command and get paid more than 200 bucks a week and all that.
I did.
What in your brain clicked were you like, you know what?
I'm not working for the man.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'll tell you that.
I got to go back to give you that though.
Raking blueberries and throwing hay.
Manual labor.
Throw hay for a day and get a $10 real.
You're going to work very hard not to do that.
Raking blueberries and Maine, which is a staple of us.
Mane is that's tough work.
You're bent over in the sun in the blueberry fields.
And guess what you do for your first week, you earn your rake.
So what does that mean?
There's a different job that you use the rake picking or something.
You've got a bottle of rake.
You're in debt.
You start and you give you the rake and you have to work it off.
How much do you think that rake cost?
I'm doing the math.
I'm like.
I'm like, this is tough.
But I like it.
So when I walked into my interview at this marketing agency,
this kind of a pompous kid, I said,
he said, what do you want to do long term?
Mark, I said, start my own business.
I'm going to own my own business.
He goes, you don't want to do that.
You do not want to own your own business.
You don't know what it takes to survive in a world of business.
And I said, okay.
Proceed.
Then I learned in sucked the knowledge I could.
All the knowledge I could.
I just sucked it and sucked it and sucked it.
And then I moved home and started.
And what city was that?
I started.
Well, I started the business out of my college apartment.
It was about as big as this table.
I was the man though.
I had a little a Mac.
The black one, Wall Street.
There was a mall.
It had like a, it was black and had like rubber on the sides.
You know what I mean?
That's a U of the man.
Yeah.
And I think that thing caused me some issues because it was very tough to have kids.
I sat that thing on my lap for hours on end.
And I'm telling you, something was really Haitian.
Man, I had to practice a lot to have kids.
Practice was good, but it got a little tough when it was like,
I can't have kids.
So, but yeah, man, I started the business out of my college apartment.
My first insight and new media marketing agency and new media company.
And just started hammering.
And I was fearless going after accounts and clients.
You know, and two years later, I find myself in Park City, Utah sitting in the front of the president of
Rosakna, I'll click so we're selling them an idea like Bill Gates, I didn't exist yet.
I'm telling them what I could do and then they gave me the money to do it.
And then we did it.
And the rest of history.
So, so everything was rocking.
And so it's a long day.
Did you, so you were in your college apartment, but then where did you end up?
I ended up here in my hometown.
And you had space.
You got an office in all nine yards?
Yeah, well, I started in a barn.
And it was me and another guy, my first hire.
And then we moved into kind of like a double wide trailer in house.
You know, we call it a double wide.
Did it have a skirt?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
You're using a different figure right?
Did it have a skirt?
It's a vinyl skirt.
You kidding me?
Yeah.
Who doesn't have a vinyl skirt?
Gotta keep it real.
So we went there and then we moved into a basement in town.
This is like the perfect progression.
Right?
Yeah.
And then we hired a few more.
And then we moved into a beautiful, we had built out a studio where, man, it was,
we actually designed it.
Because you were making legit money now.
We were.
How many employees are we talking about?
I think maybe seven or so.
Okay.
Something like that.
And now you're 22.
Yeah.
If that, yeah, yeah.
Probably 22.
Getting out of 22 years old.
Yeah.
Six employees.
Custom design office.
So we did everything.
You want to hear something?
I don't know if I should say this.
Okay.
You ready for this?
You may have to edit this out.
All right.
I handled two governors campaigns in Maine.
22 years old.
They wanted to like the best design, the best marketing.
So they came to these youngins.
Mm-hmm.
And we had this one guy, less often.
Should maybe you not say the name?
It was a national news.
Sorry.
I want to.
You can cut it out.
Understood.
Really national news.
No.
It's national news.
Okay.
Really nice guy.
Right after Obama's first term.
So less came and he wanted us to handle his campaign.
And so he wanted a logo that was circular like Obama's logo.
And so we did a eye design myself a circular logo, which green and blue.
Very similar feel.
Not even close to the same, but it was around.
And who had done a round logo at that time?
Next thing I know, this thing ends up on CNN, all the national news stations.
And they have like the two logos.
They have Obama's logo.
Okay.
And less is logo.
I've got it.
Of influx of emails and phone calls.
People like RIPIC.
Because remember how that first term for Obama?
Remember how hot that was.
Yeah.
Remember why were people negative when they were negative on you?
Because they were like we ripped it off.
And I was like really, really.
So it was round.
Don't make a round logo.
Yeah.
Especially after the first Obama.
They don't use circles.
Don't use circles.
They say that's like that's what they're saying.
So anyways, it was it was an interesting time.
There's a little bit of stress.
Did he catch heat for it?
Obviously.
Yeah.
Because no one really cared that you don't know.
Even knew that like some.
He wasn't like, oh my, I had agency made it up.
And I thought it was great.
No, well, he, you know what they, you know, kind of a little bit.
He did that.
But he had an advice advisor that said, this is the right direction and whatnot.
So it was, it was interesting times.
So what was the heat?
The heat was like national media like ripping you down.
People dig down who designed it.
Like when company that designed it and just like tearing you off.
They found you your book picture.
It was a straight.
It was like Obama.
It was like 15 days of like holy shit.
Like we're going to survive this as a company, you know.
And we did.
Yeah.
And so you, you survived that.
And I guess your lesson is like from that that you can survive things.
You're going to like it's interesting.
I just caught that you said 15 days.
Yeah.
Because guess what?
15 days no one cared anymore.
Is that pretty much pretty much.
Yeah.
I see that a lot in the news. You know, people, some people freak out about something.
And I'm like, yeah, I wait.
I'll wait a week.
Four or four days.
Something else anymore.
There's like some other media that hit the satellite thing or whatever.
Yeah.
So it was, it was interesting.
You know, we were young, you know, in naive, you know.
I mean, I think all entrepreneurs start out naive honestly.
And from a leadership perspective, you're in a leadership position.
Yeah.
Right. For the first time.
And you have a team of six people.
Yeah.
You're the man.
Yep.
And I'm trusting.
You see, you say that little hesitation.
Yeah.
I trust that people will do the right thing.
Are the people that are working for you, your age?
Yeah.
Younger.
Just all the things.
Same age.
Year two difference.
Okay.
All young.
So now you said recession.
What happens there?
Well, we were kind of like booming as a company building.
So it's an incredible, we would do interactive touch screen.
Key asks and all this really, really cool shit.
What that nobody was doing yet.
Recession hit.
We lost 65% of our business overnight.
We once the first thing you cut in a recession advertising.
You're not supposed to.
But you do.
It's a wrong move.
But it's the move that everyone makes.
Yeah, man.
I probably make the same move.
Where can we cut costs?
Add spend.
Right?
Stop that.
Anyways, the recession hit.
And we had built this company from like the ground up.
Just funneled the money back into the company.
Bill built by equipment, build this to do all this stuff.
I'm like, oh shit.
First time I thought about like these guys bought houses here.
Have families, are starting families.
Move away.
How long had the run been at this point?
This had been five years.
That's a good question.
What is the recession eight or nine?
This is six, seven year run.
Okay.
Six.
So yeah, these guys had established their lives.
They established their families up here.
Yes.
They you were the form of income.
You're how they're paying their mortgage.
Absolutely.
And I felt that.
You know, I don't know if that's a weakness.
But I'm sensitive to that, man.
I that if I promise somebody something like this company is your future.
I mean this company is your future.
I will stop taking a paycheck and that's not the right thing to do.
You got to always pay yourself right.
I will stop taking a paycheck to make sure you get yours.
That's what I did.
And what I also did is I took out a line of credit.
It was the first money I had taken out from the bank ever.
And I used that money to keep things going to try to get through the recession.
And I didn't want to lay anybody off.
What I had them do was I had them start designing in house.
Because by the way, the next thing that you do after you cut advertising, the biggest cost
just about any business there is is your people.
So that's the next thing that gets cut.
But you're saying you're not going to do that.
And I'm young.
Yeah.
And learning about business as I go, you know.
So no, I'm not going to do it.
No, they some of them bought houses and stuff.
You know, like I'm not taking away their livelihood.
You know, I'll find a way to just get through, right?
You know.
And I believe I had the fortitude to get through, you know.
But.
And there's the butt.
They didn't.
And here's why because I had them start working on in house projects.
And I was training jujitsu at the time.
And so I was going to develop a platform.
So that an academy could build a website based off of a template.
A system for their jujitsu school.
And it was going to be badass.
And we had done this for like, Rossignol and Dean of Star.
We had, we were like one of the first companies to build online tools to build things.
Makes sense.
Mm-hmm.
There's a night, it early 2000s.
So we're going on and you look at some product and you want to,
There's a little customization that can be done to it.
You guys, the design things to move the mouse around.
Yeah.
The bunch of those now, but it was a bunch of, it was none of them.
Okay.
So we started building this thing.
And you're building this thing, but you're not being paid for it yet.
Because eventually we're going to sell it.
Right.
That's what you're doing.
Now, did you jujitsu take a little bit more of my time than it should have?
You know, these things happen.
Yeah.
Did I think about it more than anything else in the world?
I did.
And just real quick, how'd you get it in a jujitsu?
Well, after football, I stopped playing football.
And I was like, man, I need to fight.
I always had this desire to fight.
Maybe I'll men have that.
I don't know, but I felt like many extra extra.
Like extra.
Like I need to fight.
So I'm like tycoando.
So I started fighting in tycoando and achieved that in about two years.
I was like, okay.
Now what?
And then I found jujitsu.
And I got choked out by 150 pound kid.
And I was 285 pounds.
And I was like, that's a conventor.
I'm in.
Configured out.
I came at him with every bit of athleticism.
The kid choked me out.
I was cold.
Yeah.
I had what just happened.
And I bought into it.
So many out.
Anyways, I was passionate about jujitsu.
And I had this perfect plan to build a system.
And they started getting salty about it.
Now is that because they felt like there wasn't income.
It's because they weren't getting paid by the project.
Getting commissioned or something like that.
What were they getting salty about?
They all got salaries.
So what were they getting salty about?
The fact that they were working on my pet projects.
Those words, my pet projects.
They were also salty.
I had two very young kids in my wife in the office.
That the kids were in the office.
And they were playing with their stuff.
And doing what kids do.
They're being kids.
My company, my office, my kids.
Okay.
They found that a problem.
So out of the menu.
What was your relationship?
Because this, I'm just assuming right now that you got a bunch of people that are working for you that are around the same age as you.
Yep.
And so I'm guessing that you're kind of growing out with them.
Superb rows.
The immature kids.
Right.
Talented immature kids.
I mean, you're talking about like, hey, let's shut it down and go snowboarding.
We've got two inches of pow pow, unsure below.
You know, and we need to hit that.
And as we do, we just shut it down.
Grab the snowping or a rosy gnaw would send us like $10,000 from product.
We just, we just go up.
Just rip on the mountain.
Hey, man, just get the work done.
You know, oh, you need to, yeah, man, no worries.
Just do, just make sure the work's done.
Yep.
Very loose.
Superb rows.
Talented.
Yes.
Hit the pow pow.
Let's do it.
The powder.
So, yeah, man, the relationship was not a boss worker employee relationship.
It was a creative.
I always wanted to, we had a fuzball table.
And the, you know, and give me a break.
I mean, it's a creative agency.
Yep.
But when shit hits the fan, the fingers go to one person.
This guy, right?
So, all right.
I'm ready to sustain this thing to make it happen.
They weren't.
So, one day, I'm in my wife's office.
And the whole crew gets up and hands me a paper.
And it's a thick paper.
And they're like, we'll see you on Monday to talk about this.
Because they thought they weren't expendable.
Okay.
So, they're giving you an ultimatum.
Ultimatum.
I was like, I turned white for a second.
I was like, okay.
And they walked out.
Were you, did you anticipate this at all?
No.
Yeah.
No idea.
I would never be caught off guard like that again.
Yeah, that one's going to speak.
That one's going to leave a mark.
This isn't, isn't mutiny.
That's a huge straight up mutiny.
Yep.
Okay.
My wife is an emotional being.
We sat down and we read this paper.
And it was a list of demands.
A list of demands about profit sharing.
How the company was making all this money.
And it wasn't being filtered down to the employees.
And about my kids and how they cannot come into the office anymore.
Because they make noise.
A whole list of demands.
They can't concentrate when they're playing food's ball.
Yeah.
And yeah, amongst other things.
Young, stupid kids.
Yeah.
And I was one of them.
Because I was naive.
So we started looking to this thing.
And I was like, wow, it's like, I can punch in the face.
And my wife went, thing.
And she spun up.
And she's, she's French Canadian.
And she's, she's, you know, yeah, anyway.
She spun up.
That's okay.
Does she speak French when she's angry?
No.
Okay.
I wish that would be kind of hard.
She did.
I was from around.
I'm like, maybe speak French.
Just make your madzans to get yell at you and do that.
Yeah.
No.
So, so what we did is we just, we sat there and looked at each other and we're like, what?
And I said, did they have any idea?
We just took out a line of credit to support this place to get through the recession.
Did they have any idea we don't have any work?
So what do we do?
Recon.
We opened up their computers, logged in and started looking for all the interaction between the staff.
And wow.
What they thought of me?
I was sad.
I was like, wow.
This is sad.
Maybe you feel like shit.
What do they think?
I mean, they thought I was like, some type of miser, like, squirling, weight, cash, and resources.
Yeah.
Because I was kept a straight face, a happy personality.
They had no idea how much in the whole we were.
Yeah.
And I can imagine that you're trying to actually protect them from the stress of business.
Yes.
And in doing that, you didn't communicate to them what was actually happening, which meant that they created
What was happening in their own minds, which was obviously wrong.
They're creating what they think reality is in their minds when they don't know all the facts.
There's so many times in business when I talk to businesses and business are going through
transitions or there's something happening.
They'll be asking, well, do you think we should tell the employees what's happening?
Right.
And I'm like, well, you have two choices.
You can tell them what's happening.
Are they going to make up a story?
They're going to make up a story.
And it's not going to be good.
They're going to think worst case scenario.
And so the open communications that is how you prevent this kind of thing.
And obviously, you're 22 years old. That's pretty awesome that you were in the position you were in.
And obviously, you can look back now.
And it's pretty simple to see what the solutions were.
One of them you were you were growing out with these guys too much.
And this is a fine line, you know, because, you know, in a super tune, I had
Bros.
Lifetime brothers.
Yeah.
That were, you know, three or four ranks below me.
But they were professional.
And they understood the line between and they understood.
And they respected the position.
And then there's other guys that were, you know, that same rank,
lower rank that I couldn't give that kind of closeness to.
And so that's one of those things that, you know, we talk about a lot with companies
is it's different for the different people in your company.
So I'm not saying you can't grow out with people.
And also, that doesn't mean you don't have awesome relationships with your people.
Because that's what you want.
You want to have awesome relationships with the people that are working for you.
Because they're going to do that much more for you and you can do that much more for them.
And it becomes a functional winning team because everyone cares about each other.
Exactly.
There's a dichotomy there.
You know, are we being, there's a line?
Are we super bros?
What is that line?
And that line is the thing that you need to figure out.
What makes it really hard with the relationship pieces that it's different for different
people.
And I had some guys that wasn't even five in a single tune.
And I was the lieutenant and they were my total bros.
And there's another guy that's in the five and I got to keep a little distance just so they make sure that they
They stay professional.
Right.
And so this is this is challenging stuff and great lessons learned for anyone to run into business.
Especially young people.
But it's not just young people because I see seasoned CEOs asking these same questions.
You don't learn this shit in college.
I'm so sorry.
You know, like being an entrepreneur, business man or woman, whatever.
It's learned, you know, you may have a gift of something or a good counting.
Maybe a good sales person or good marketing or somebody's born with a gift to be an entrepreneur.
You know, it's built, it's crafted over time and you have to fail and fall flat on your face and get punched in the face to figure it out.
Yeah.
So.
But what's good is, unfortunately, there's those lessons that your parents tried to teach you, but you didn't listen to.
And they come out of this.
And if you're even aware of them, and that's what's good about like someone that's hearing what you're saying right now.
They, they might not recognize it before.
And this is a chapter in extreme ownership, right?
That got to me of leadership and you got to be, you can't be so close to your people that ones more important to it.
We go through this, right?
But the awareness of it is it gives people a percentage chance of maybe instead of falling flat on their face.
Maybe they just stumble and they're able to recover.
Right.
So this is, you know, classic.
I felt flat.
Yes.
Do it hurt too.
Oh, so what happens?
So I was, I was sad man at first.
Then I got angry.
And then I got even.
No.
I, basically what it was is we are not expendable.
Heed these words and these demands.
And we'll talk to you Monday morning.
Okay.
So what happens?
We do a little recon.
Get into the computers.
See the communication between all of them.
What they thought about me, what they thought about my wife.
What they thought was going on with the company.
Half an hour later, I'm in my vehicle, divide and conquer.
You're not going to tell me, because in that paper, it said, do not come in see us individually.
Do not seek us out.
Do not try to separate one of us and have a conversation.
And that's exactly what I did.
By the way, from the employee standpoint, this is a horrible move.
They are making doop as bad of a mistake as you were making as a leader.
Because what they should have any one of them could have done is said, Pete, bro, I got to talk to you man.
Let me tell you what's going on.
Yeah.
This is what we're thinking.
We don't know what's going on with the company.
You've got us working on these random projects that are like your projects.
We should be working for other companies.
Can you tell us what God's name is going on so we can move forward?
That's one of those people.
Nobody was that mature.
And you could have brought him into a room and said, hey guys, I apologize for not telling you.
But let me tell you what income we have on the next six months.
Nothing.
So this is what we're going to do to try and survive.
You could have given the plan they would understand why you're doing what you're doing.
And it would have been good.
So both sides of the chain of command, there are actually making grievous mistakes.
I had mistakes.
And I learned from that that was, I mean, I'm a transparent person as it is.
You can ask me anything you want.
And I will answer it.
I was just a dumb kid though.
I didn't want to show weakness to them.
Is what I was thinking.
Right.
Because I didn't want them to feel like they needed to go find another job.
I didn't want them to think that start talking like all the companies are going to shut down.
I was making my own stories.
I didn't trust they would make the right decision if I told them this.
So I just carried on to try to push through.
And you're right, it was a mistake to not share it with them.
Because it would have been, I was, we were bleeding as a company.
But they were, the blood I was trying to keep in.
It would have been easier just to let them decide what they wanted to do after and hindsight,
telling them where we were as a company, how the recession had affected us.
But I didn't.
And so I divided and conquered.
Meaning I got to my goal.
Drive to the first one's house.
Knock on the door.
John.
We're going to talk or you have no job.
John still with me right now.
He works for Origin.
Sweet.
I was pissed.
I was so pissed.
I was crying a little bit.
I was pissed.
You've been so pissed like you're just like, you cried.
Yes.
Negative.
Next question.
Really?
I don't know.
I guess I guess I'm talking about being a kid.
Seven.
I'm talking like 20, what am I?
23, 24, something like that.
Yes.
I was in the deems at that point.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's not happening.
This is a one talk to.
Yeah.
Echo.
I'm having a conversation with you.
I know.
I really like this.
I hope that you have the kind of behavior you
have of every kid.
I've been lying to you.
It's like you are the only one he's in
alguns to say
are you lonely?
Who's it?
When I was a kid, I had one mentor, my buddy's father,
because it was a single mom who was,
just we, our kids, we a lot of the time we raised ourselves.
I didn't have a mentor, now I have a father figure around
all the time to see how to, so I just, I worked off of
pure drive and emotion.
Yeah, yeah, again, I'm not trying to be a jerk.
No, I'm having fun with it.
Yeah, absolutely.
But you're so pissed.
So pissed.
You've got freaking tears in your eyes.
Yeah.
And you go to John, you fucking, you want this job or not,
because if you say no, you're not talking to me,
you do not have a job and you've got a new house.
Okay, so he had, he's in the car.
Okay.
One down, one in the game.
Still one in the game.
Got it.
As I drove to the other's houses,
they either didn't answer the door and hid
or answer the door and said, I can't talk to you
and close to it.
Okay, so our kids, you know,
these are kids.
These are kids.
Which is a message to everybody.
Yeah.
When you don't want to talk to somebody,
you're not solving anything.
You don't know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Now, I'm not saying that there's sometimes
where I'm so mad at you that I'm like,
Pete, come back tomorrow, bro,
because right now,
anything that goes good?
Yeah, is that?
I'm so mad I could cry.
Yeah.
I was something like that.
That sounds really sensitive.
That would you actually do that?
That is a week.
But that is that the point is though,
seriously, if there's, if there's a problem
and you're not going to talk about it,
you're going to sound like that kid right there,
that answers the way I came up.
I can't talk to you right now.
I can shut the door.
That's that's not a way to get anything solved.
Are there times where you need a little bit of distance?
Yeah.
Because people are hotheaded.
Yes, that happens.
As long as you know,
you're going to,
you both know that it's not,
it's solvable,
you know, like I feel like
with respect to business and stuff.
Like, like if you're working with a client,
you may like bang heads with a client.
And be like, all right, listen,
we need to shut this down
and discuss it like in 48 hours.
That's learned over time.
Not when you're a kid.
You just want to get after like,
for even your approach was super hardcore.
And this is again,
you know, people a little bit aggressive.
Yeah, people, people want to hear me say like,
that's right.
You go in there and you say you either talk to me now
or you don't have a job.
Yeah.
I was already bleeding though.
So was that the right choice?
I don't know, but the approach for me would be like,
hey, let me explain to you what's going on.
And then you can think more about your decision
because right now I'm telling you what you've decided
and what you've presented to me is so far off base
that if this is what you want to make your decision based on,
I'm telling you what I'm going to have to do
is let you go.
Yeah, because I haven't told you yet,
but we don't have any money.
And I'm paying you out of my own pocket.
So if you don't like that and you don't want me
to pay you out of my own pocket or any more,
I'm actually good with that.
But if you want to have a job and you want to try
and make this thing work, let's have a conversation.
And that's close to exactly what I would say now.
Yeah, exactly.
100%.
The reason I'm making this point is that I had a guy
hit me up on social media.
Yeah.
He asked a legit question.
And he pre-prefaced the question.
He says, I'm a very direct guy like you.
Meaning he's direct like me.
And he says, and I give feedback and it makes people mad
and rub them the wrong way.
And I'm just, you know, I wrote back a good look, man.
I'm direct on Twitter, which is 140 characters.
And I'm answering 720 questions in rapid fire.
And so yeah, I'm direct when someone says,
what is your average daily diet consist of?
Steak.
Next one.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, but you're direct you're not an asshole.
But that's also like I'm having fun.
Like that's the fun part of, you know, interacting
with people through social media.
That's not how I'm treating another human being face-to-face
in a real relationship when we're trying to build something.
Then I'm using tact, I'm using maneuvering.
Of course.
But nitpulating the situation, I'm setting things up.
I'm being the most tactful person.
In fact, not only am I not gonna rub them the wrong way,
I'm gonna rub them in a very nice way.
So they feel good about the conversation that we had.
Disarmum and how real things are actually.
The point is is that, you know, you're, you, like you said,
what my little quote was is what you would say now.
Back then, you're young, you're bleeding.
I'm bleeding.
You pissed off.
Yeah.
And you say, you know, wife nagging at me about finances.
Yeah, you know how that all builds.
Two young kids don't sleep through the night.
You know, it gets tricky and you're trying to maintain this.
So just FYI, what you just said, you just said,
you know how it is.
And to be honest with you, I don't know how that is.
Because I was in the military.
I got to pay it check every two weeks.
I had kids.
I had health insurance taken care of.
I had house taken care of.
It's, it's a huge, it's, it's, it's actually a feeling I don't know.
So I, yeah, don't know that feeling.
I can only imagine, I can only imagine what I would be thinking
if I was in your shoes at 22 years old with a wife to screaming kids.
And I don't have any money.
So yeah, check.
OK.
And I get some.
I will tell you about that feeling.
It's a feeling I'm never going to go back to.
As we, as I divided and conquered, it did not go my way.
So meaning that the people were saying they can't talk
or they hit.
They can't talk.
They went, they laughed.
They're having their homes, whatever.
So I made a decision what to do.
When I told, talk to my wife, she's like, what are we going to do?
I said, well, I said they all think they're expendable, accept.
They're not because there's not a person in this world that is so good.
Oh, they can't be replaced.
They can't be replaced.
You got it.
They're not expendable.
There's not a person's world that is so good at their job.
They can't be replaced.
Do you hear that echo?
Yes.
Just to say.
Almost none.
But you're right.
There's a lot of talent that people in the world.
So what did I do?
hefty trash bags.
Get some.
I went up to that studio and I scraped their desks individually into trash bags.
I didn't even think it felt good.
I didn't even mean to say that like, but it felt good.
Yeah.
I literally scraped it, tied it up.
Went to the next one.
My wife just pushed it all into the bag.
This was good.
Derpy.
Yep.
We dragged all the shot.
I don't care what they had on their desks.
My property.
Your shit in the trash bags.
And organized nothing is scraped.
Drag them down the stairs.
Gently.
Because I'm getting a feeling this was not a drag.
Them down the stairs.
We were in this studio, you know, third floor studio that we had built out for us.
Beautiful.
Right.
That Monday morning, the art director who I cut my teeth with came down.
He lived in Bangor, Maine.
He said Bangor came down and we were sitting there and it was glass, like the glass.
And it's like you can see through it being inside, but from the outside you can't.
They all get out of the same vehicle kind of giggling and chuckling.
They own me.
They own this company.
And they walked in the door and then we were sitting there with a trash bags.
And they went from.
He was in the city to guilty, to sadness, and their faces turned white.
There's your shit.
Take it.
Now's it?
Done.
That was tough.
I said a few words.
I was not going to be held hostage to this situation.
In business, I say you've got like 40 years of being a maker.
I did a speech recently at an innovation.
I wrote a speech for an innovation expo.
You know, zero to 20 year learning, 20 to 60 year doing
and 60 to 80, hopefully you're enjoying the fruits of your labor.
Anything good in life takes 10 years.
So my first 10 years had passed, but I still had 30 to go.
And so I knew I wasn't done,
but the pain of the situation in the experience
I grew exponentially overnight.
We had salvaged a small part of the company,
which was this webware.
It was like online software.
Everything is now, like the cloud.
But there was no cloud.
There was this system.
I was able to salvage that because it had a cool little customer base
of some high-end customers.
They paid monthly.
It was just like reoccurring payments,
just to use it.
And so I found a buyer for it
and the negotiation took a long time.
And in that long time we had no income,
no money.
And so what did I do?
I started selling shit, dirt bikes,
four wheelers, snowmobiles.
Every non-essential item I owned got sold.
I was trying to maintain keeping my home,
which we had built my wife and I in the forest,
which was our dream home,
just a tiny little 1500 square foot timber frame.
Borrowing money from family and in our parents.
And then knowing the situation where and so,
them actually just like giving us food or whatever.
That whole time I had the maintain like this super composure
to try and sell this thing.
All this shit happening in the background.
And I think it was like eight months.
And I finally sold it.
200,000 dollars I think it was.
Which was cheap for what we had built.
Extremely cheap.
But I was in a position where we had nothing left.
Had freaking nothing left.
You know.
It was super, super challenging.
And I could have easily turned to substance abuse,
which I never been into substances.
I could have easily just fell off the deep end
and felt like a failure,
which I knew I wasn't.
My wife wanted me to go find a job.
She's like, that's what I was about to say.
I can't do this normal.
You go get it 95.
Actually I can't do this.
I can't do this, Pete.
I can't do this.
During that eight months,
you've got to figure something I said,
I'm not going to be a team.
I will find a way to make this work.
And I believe everything happens for a reason.
It happened for a reason.
And I just kept that in the back of my head.
And I pushed and pushed forward.
And it wasn't freaking easy.
Like it was super, super hard.
Like on us.
But she stood by me.
Unwavering.
She stood by me.
Never once did she want to leave.
Did she.
Not believe in me.
Or not trust me, which is what I needed.
And like I said earlier about filling the glass back up.
It was empty.
It was bone, freaking dry.
Bone dry.
And she just put a little bit back in.
And we kept moving and kept chugging.
Now during that time period where you're looking to sell
the old company.
Are you hatching plans?
Or is you got to be 100% focused on just selling my stuff on my
fresh coastery with getting these pools back five hours
in completelylege.
And it's always just that problems called your
own heart,ion.
I wanted to say that it gateway and company,
so it obviously did thing that'd really have
gotten using this contract before it took for me to
get a lot of money to sign up for that contract.
But it never spent money out of accounting for me.
a negative thought, I would just push through it, I just pushed through the thought and
what got me through a lot of that was training GJ2 where I could expel my energy and use
my creativity which I thought I had lost in GJ2.
It's a very creative sport art and that kind of kept me, I guess I kept those endorphins
flowing so I could maintain some stability.
But tactically, your focus is sell.
It's got to make it look good.
Let's show them the numbers that are coming in for our few clients and what the projections
could be.
That's all you're doing.
And you're thinking when you sell that thing, you're going to have enough and you'll
figure it out later which I'm not worried about right now.
Exactly.
So, you make the sale.
I made the sale for the first year we get a monthly check.
It's like five grand a month or something.
Not the full amount, just like five grand a month.
So during that time I decided to just take 12 months and figure out what comes next.
And in that 12 months I traveled around the country, training GJ2 and filming a thing
we call BJJ weekly because that's what I was passionate about.
And so we traveled around and filmed technique and trained and all this stuff.
And it was like an excuse to train GJ2.
That's it.
This newsletter.
And after that 12 months and traveling around it just struck me what I wanted to do.
Years earlier I had designed this logo for a G-brand.
Off the cuff came to me, I get my ideas in the morning.
One morning I sat down and just boom done five minutes.
Sometimes you can have a client come in, we used to and I spent a hundred hours on the
frid and logo.
People don't realize how much logo is cost.
And sometimes you just nail it like ten minutes done finished.
Just like getting hit by lightning just boom done.
And that's what happened with this origin thing.
I wanted to start a brand because what I had done and what I had learned and over that
year of driving around and training and reconnecting with myself and my family was that
I loved building brands and products.
I loved taking something from nothing like a drawing and making it into something.
And I had an aversion to the screen and that space because of the new media thing.
I was always on a screen and I told the man I need to like do something physically,
like have something physical.
I need to have a physical thing to do because I was an art major and I'm an artist and
I zip up goal posts.
I need a thing to do so.
In Gigi Tu, I had seen that the uniform like hadn't changed.
I don't know.
They've been wearing kimonos for a thousand years.
But you know, judo, you know, hundreds of years, Gigi Tu, a hundred years and Brazil,
same thing, same thing, same thing, 100% cotton uniform.
This is what you wear.
You got under armor with like wicking stuff and you've got air helmets instead of leather
helmets and you know, just all these innovations and other sports and judo had shit.
We had nothing.
Like wearing a bunch of just straight cotton balls and you know, sweaty, soaked in Gigi,
that stretches and stinks bad.
It sucked.
So to start, I was like, okay, I got to start.
Meaning you now the vision.
You see that Gigi's haven't progressed.
You know that they can be made better.
But you don't actually answer, you say, okay, I want to make the best Gigi in the world.
Yeah, that's the vision.
Yes, it is.
And you have to start somewhere.
You got to start somewhere.
So I didn't know anything about textiles, but I knew about design and I knew about the human
body and you know, how the human body worked.
And in college sports, you learned about that a lot, you know, mechanics, mechanics of the
body and they, they retrain you how to run in college.
Like they you all run the same.
You do exercises.
So you're all striking forage striking with your foot.
You all run the same.
And so I designed like a G-pan, so it was like the cowboy cut.
Because I knew that in Gigi too when you're like you're squatting a lot and underneath
and the material pulled up your leg, but pulled down your butt.
So you're like, got plumbers crack, which sucks.
So I designed like so the knee pads came up to your hip.
So when you squat it, it would pull from your hips, right?
Instead of a cross to the top of your leg.
And did some cool innovations like that.
And then I was like, all right, time to go.
So we launched a Gigi at, we imported the ski from Pakistan.
And I was in the basement of my house.
And I was like, we're going to start this brand.
So I hit the basement sucked.
Here comes the key.
We shot a photo.
We saw some photos off it and I launched it through BTAJ weekly and boom, 40 grand.
I was like, wow, which you didn't have any Gis.
No.
No Gis, but I wanted to prove that we could do something different.
And I trusted I could make it happen.
No way, having a Gis.
There's like 200 Gis sold.
I've got something here.
I've got something good here.
And I knew a new adventure was going to start.
And my wife spun up.
Was it in a positive way?
No.
Oh.
She just like, what are you doing?
I'm like I'm starting a Gieberhand.
And she like got sick.
Like I don't know, she might have an anxiety attack.
And that first, like you can't do this again.
You can't, you can't start another company.
It's like, just.
And I used this word lightly being around a war hero like you, which is no war hero here.
I promise you that.
PTSD of business.
That's a real thing.
Like she had like PTSD of business because of what we had gone through and selling everything
in the feeling you get, that you keep this feeling.
For me, I used it for drive, for her, she used it for, I don't ever want to feel that
again.
That makes me like ill.
For me, it was like, I'm never going to feel that again.
I'm going to make sure I never feel that again.
And I'm going to do something about it.
So I did it anyway.
Started a company, origin.
And that's when it began 2011.
So how do you start it?
So you got one key.
Well, you sold 40 grand worth of one key that you didn't have.
What's what did you do next?
Did you know at this point you wanted to make them in America?
Had you figured that part out?
No, no.
I, let me take that.
Or you figured you'd make them in America.
I wanted to make them in America.
And so I started like calling all the factories and in Maine.
Hey, you know, you guys so stuff.
Yeah, cool.
Can you sew this?
No.
Okay.
So we don't know Maine has traditionally had a lot of industry up here, manufacturing.
Big time.
Especially when we were kids, big brands up here that build a lot.
They're all kinds of stuff.
Bass shoe 10 minutes away.
Sold out.
Dexter shoe, Hayden shoe, Lou Hayden.
You don't say it until you shoot past away.
And huge companies, L.O.B.
New Balance 20 minutes away.
So rich heritage and manufacturing.
But a peril in Maine.
A little different.
We made shoes and we wolf fabric and stuff like that.
But a peril wasn't the norm.
So what I did is we were in that basement and we're like, okay.
And I just got to make this note that all those, a lot of those companies that you're talking
about that had built all the stuff.
And we're all those years, a lot of them had left.
Yeah.
So that's the, I, I, all of the situation except all of them had left.
L.O.B.
And they still make some stuff here.
The rest left gone.
So you balance still make some stuff here too.
Yeah, new balance.
Oh yeah, for sure.
Yeah, new balance is awesome.
So I was like, okay.
We're gonna make a belt.
That's what we're gonna do.
Did you do belt?
Yeah.
So there was this guy in Louis, then, who ran this company.
And I called him up and like, I need some sewing machines.
He's like, okay, well, why don't you stop by and Louis, then, Maine, one of the manufacturing
hubs of Maine at one time, walked in and he's like, what do you need?
I was like, this is what I want to make.
It's a belt for martial arts.
He's like, okay.
And I said, I just need some machine to do that.
And like, I got 500 bucks cash.
I can spend on it.
Can you give me something to practice with?
And so he sold me a machine, showed me how to thread the bob in.
Showed me where it went, pulled through the needle.
And I'm like, okay, okay, we filmed it.
So we knew how to do it.
So we're like filming him doing this.
And I'm like, okay, so we took the sewing machine and then I put it in my basement.
Next to the desk and I'm like, yeah.
That's so amazing.
And my wife was just like, shaking her head.
Luckily, luckily we had sold a pre-order.
So we had sold $40,000 in Giz that didn't exist.
So she had gotten off my back a little bit.
So that machinery sat there.
And as we looked at trying to make this key.
And I didn't say, oh, we're going to make a key in America.
I just said, right, we're going to make a key.
We're going to change the key.
We're going to change the key first.
So we started the import game.
Everybody else is doing it.
Everybody's telling me manufacturers dead.
I did a few phone calls.
Pretty much everybody's like, yeah, you can't really do that.
And so I was like, okay, you know, at the whole time I'm thinking like, something's
not right here that I can't do this.
And I just couldn't put my finger on what it was.
So I imported in 2011 and May we started in 2011 and into 2012.
Then a few batches did the whole.
Hey, limited edition batch thing.
Giz, but we promoted it with the innovations we had.
It was still shit.
When it comes right down to it.
What the key was?
Yeah, man.
It was still shit.
I'm using old textiles.
I have to exist.
So do you design, you said you imported one from Pakistan and then what do you do?
Like, cut it up and redesign it or something or did you send the design to them?
And they, so I designed like everything in a little straight.
Like a tech like I want this here.
I want the knee pads here.
They've got a fall here, the belt loops because I don't want to untie the, all this
stuff.
And then they send it.
Yeah.
Done.
Finish.
So you know in Pakistan, they're like the manufacturing for martial arts.
It's like the manufacturing hub and this little city called sale cut.
They're actually like almost like migrant workers as a ton of factories, due to factories.
But the workers are the same.
Oh, the same guys in there.
Yeah, all the same guys they made or whatever.
They rotate around.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
We got a contract over here.
We're going to make five.
Yeah, let's go make her Giz.
Yeah.
Good bunch of guys show up there.
They work for pennies and pennies.
Yep.
We did the importing thing and we started to grow rapidly.
We started to make money.
And at that point, my other business, I was making kind of monthly income and then I got
kind of like a chunk of money like 100 grand.
I was like, all right, cool.
I can like take a deep breath and really push this thing.
And so I pushed it and we started selling more and more.
And I came out with this really cool backpack, called a Mondial backpack, Munjial backpack,
technical backpack.
And we sold a ton of them, thousands of them.
And then we came out with this product for grip training.
We weren't patting anything.
We were just like, boom, because that's what I did.
Once I got on the rolls, I was like, design this, design this.
And we were just selling, selling, selling.
And during this time, I was also competing.
Now, because a mail, it's just a no more.
It's due to you and you want to test yourself against the best in the world.
So I was training hard.
I ended up winning the, let me, let me digress for a second.
I had seen another company release a product for grip training that looked exactly
like ours.
What was the product though?
You're training one?
Yes, called that a ring hang.
So it's like the ghee and then calmer and the sleeve.
Yeah, it was cool.
It was awesome.
And I was like, those bastards ripped us off.
And I wasn't thinking my manufacturer or anything while I was like, man, another company
ripped us off.
I should have patented that, you know, blah, blah, blah.
OK.
So I was competing.
I ended up going to Canada.
I won the World Pro Trials.
I was a brown belt at the time.
One of the world pro trials in the Black belt division, because they, you know, they
put the divisions together as, you know, for that was in 2012.
Now they, I think they separated them now again.
But so I got to go over to Abu Dhabi and compete in the World Pro.
And as a brown belt in that Black belt division.
I'm sitting there before my match.
And I'm supposed to fight Shandji Habero and the quarterfinals of the open division.
And I, I, I, I, I'm going to say this.
It was bad seating like the seating of the brackets was not good.
OK.
Um, like, I had in my bracket a guy from Brazil, JT Torres, a Shandji and maybe
under a Galvan.
And so JT didn't want to fight.
So he, so I fought the other kid from Brazil.
And he was much smaller and I was athletic and good night.
I ended up winning.
And then JT just kind of like didn't want to fight.
So then he coach me against Shandji and we had a war.
Here's a good man.
I had it last couple of the second spaddives.
Very close.
The problem with the No Shandji is multiple times World Champion from the World.
One of the best of all time, and JT too.
Big time.
Awesome guy too.
Awesome.
Awesome guy.
So, but the seating was bad like Lafato was.
And then it like, there was a couple other guys.
I don't know, just, if my division could have been tougher and I would have gotten my
ass kicked a lot earlier.
OK.
So, but we had a war and it was awesome.
And maybe I would have won if I had worked harder.
Maybe I would have won if that girl from Poland didn't walk by me right before the match
with an origin Gion and a different logo on the back.
And what was on your cut of a G.
Like the G that you designed.
Yeah.
And you see a girl from Poland who's competitive competing.
She walks by.
Yeah, it was actually, it was the pit, the pants.
Yeah.
There's a logo, a different logo on the back.
But our whole thing, your design, yeah, different logo.
Yeah.
I knew it was my manufacturer and then everything clicked.
They ripped off the orang-hangryp trainers.
OK.
But what am I to do?
Because I'm locked into these guys now.
So I had to strategize.
So I went out and lost in the quarterfinals.
Got on an airplane, worse freaking flight of my life.
Because I'm an ADHD kid and I can't be stuck in a freaking seat for 14 hours.
That sucks.
And on the ride back, I was talking to J.T.
Who I'd become good friends with.
He was kind of like in a tricky position in life.
He was still with his instructor in Maryland.
And just didn't know what to do.
He wasn't progressing.
And he was telling me, man, I've got to get,
like, I have to do it full work out before I can actually
train with the guys because he was so good.
He just wasn't getting it.
And you know the mecca of J.T.
Who you know is California.
I'll do this so far as to say San Diego.
San Diego.
That's where you went.
So he was figuring his whole thing out.
So cal for sure.
So cal.
Yeah.
He was figuring his whole thing out.
And I was I'm thinking about it's like this,
probably I'm like man, I think I'm going to build a factory.
I'm wearing the airplane.
I was like he's looking to be like, yeah,
I want to build a factory.
Screw this shit.
This is bullshit.
I said, I'm not competing anymore.
I'm done.
And all of a sudden he wanted to do his win the World Champion
ship.
So we kind of like helped each other a little bit
in that plane ride back, like kind of bouncing ideas
off each other.
Decompression, decompression.
So I got back and I skyped my manufacturer.
And I was like over skyped.
Like this is bullshit.
You freaking, I didn't say that.
So you fucking ripped off our intellectual property
and sold it to other brands.
And he said business is business.
Dang.
You ever have a defining moment in your life
where you just turn on and you're like,
yep, done.
I knew at that moment what we were going to do.
Like it was clear.
It became clear.
And I knew the challenge in front of me
and I knew it wasn't sane.
And I knew it couldn't be done.
And I was like, it's happening.
Props.
So I got to tell you a little bit of what happened right
after that.
Right after that, I went out to the World Championships
to compete because I had already signed up.
And that was going to be my year.
We were there and there was this brand there.
And I walked up and I walked by and I did double take.
I was like, what?
And I looked for the right.
And there's our Mundial technical backpack right there.
But with friends.
With send their logo on it.
I went up to the guy and I was like, dude, I said,
got an original idea.
And everybody there's a badass except for this guy who doesn't
do Gigi's youth.
Who does nothing, right?
Just some chubby dude who wants to capitalize on the success
of combat sports and Gigi's who's growth in California.
And I'm not going to name the company.
And I was like, that is a week.
I said in bullshit.
I said, get some original friggin' ideas.
I went down, walked down in myself and the deco
our business partner.
And Nia, his wife and my wife were down there.
And I told my wife, in spin, did she ever?
She went up there and she flipped out on the guy.
A man to bring it, she bringing it five, two, 103 pounds.
A fury.
It was awesome.
We flew back and the picture was already clear.
This was just like added motivation, just added motivation.
I called one of my buddies Tim and John was already working for me
from my last business, the sole survivor, the sole survivor,
moved back to Farmington.
Well, we did as you grab that, that tape you put around trees.
And you want to flag trees to cut and you got to flag the trees to cut.
We kind of have like, I had John.
I have seven acres of property, which is, okay, listen, seven acres
is not a lot of property and main.
You can buy property and main for $500 an acre in some places, private sale.
So let's just make that clear.
Seven acres is not a lot.
But we have seven acres of land in the woods.
And so I like flagged out.
I'm like, we're going to build a factory here.
We just flagged it out like this.
And this is based on the architectural design that you're engineered
put through for your factory.
Yeah.
All right.
So he was like, I think a factory should be about this big.
Yeah.
This looks like a factory size.
So awesome.
I call the buddy any brothers chains are over.
And they're just like, I just do it.
And we just started cutting trees.
My father and I came over with a chipper.
We chipped it out.
Okay, we stumped it.
We pulled a stump out.
We're pretty resourceful up in here.
And maybe you ever heard Yankee ingenuity that term.
For sure.
That happens.
So what do we do?
We cleared it.
We did a little bit of earthwork.
I got on the compactor and compacted all the sand.
And Portus Lab had had some some guy, some company.
Saw her out a bunch of Eastern white pine.
And had my buddy build a barn factory.
Barn.
And we just spent, I don't know, 1868.
I don't know how many hours we slept in zero hours.
Around the clock, we just built this thing from the ground up.
Myself, my brother, friends, family.
That was just, we did it. We built it.
That was stuck a sewing machine in there.
That's what we've seen.
That's what we've done.
We're like, what are we doing?
That's where it began.
And the thing is, if you listen, I'm all for planning.
I like to plan what's going to happen in there.
Like to execute that plan.
But do it.
And I like to lead the plan.
And I'm shitty when it comes to like,
I'm always making sure everybody's living up to their expectations.
Like as part of the plan, if they bought into it,
you better fully bought into it.
There's no room for like slacking.
Like if I'm working to midnight, you're working to midnight.
Right? You're not leaving.
So that's what we did.
And I'm a pusher to you, like a push push push push.
Like to see how much I can get out of somebody to push them to their potential.
And see where their breaking point is.
So I can learn about the person, but also get the best out of them.
So we did it. We built a factory.
And that's where it started.
So then comes what's next sewing machines?
Yeah.
And sewing machines.
And just started looking for staff that knew how to sell.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So we didn't have any lights yet. We had one sewing machine.
And we just like, okay, this is how we're doing.
This is how you sew.
And I found this old time or bill who came down.
And he's like explaining the different types.
He's been in the business for 40 years.
Bixing sewing machines.
And he's just like, you know, when is that X?
And he's like, you know, you got that.
We got a single needle machine.
A double needle.
And you've got the locking stitch and a chain stitch.
And you know, all this stuff.
And I'm just like, whoa.
And so I just absorbed. It got, it became completely absorbed in that, right?
Learning about sewing machines.
I learned how to run them, how to fix them.
What they were good for.
The different types of feeding, you know, all, all, everything about sewing machines.
How's that cool? I know about sewing machines.
Now we need some fabric.
So I started looking for fabric.
Guess what? They don't make fabric in the United States.
They don't make fabric that we needed in Mexico.
They don't make fabric in Canada.
Shit, they don't make fabric for Gigi's.
And I was like, what are we going to do?
What would you do?
You just built a factory.
And you have all these sewing machines.
And what would you do?
So you're only option at this point is got an order of the material from the order of the material from what we've seen.
So you got it. That's what you're going to do.
Right?
I was like screw that.
And so I started looking for like weaving.
And so I just, you know, was looking for weaving like, hey, hey, hey, hey, you guys, we've
been doing these a far or far as 100,000 yards, you know, 12 bucks yard.
No.
So I'm just looking, looking, looking.
And did you ever order any material?
I did.
Okay, because you had to sell Gigi's.
I mean, I had to make some money.
We got investment into this thing now.
Right.
And I didn't take a paycheck for like the first two years of business.
I didn't take a paycheck.
Maybe three.
I didn't pay myself once.
Every dime I just dump back in, dump back in, dump back in.
Weaving was impossible.
Right?
You're not going to freaking weave material.
So I did.
I imported material for that first year.
And we figured out how to make a Gigi.
And it was a pain in the ass.
And that first week.
We finished the week.
And I called to deco.
And I said,
we made five pairs of pants this week.
And he's like not really high production.
Dude, I was just like, what am I doing?
And I kind of started telling that story.
You like legit or questioning.
Oh, I spiral down.
Like, oh, my God.
You know, you thought you were going to make 200 G's in the week.
Or G pants.
And we can make five, five pairs of pants.
I was just mind boggling.
Mind boggling.
And Jill was my first teacher.
She's still with us today.
The one you were talking about earlier.
Dude, I did not know what to do.
I was truly at a loss for.
I didn't have anybody to teach me about how to manufacture.
And I was like, how you should set this up.
Because the knowledge had disappeared out of the state.
It was gone.
The folks that used to do that stuff either.
They passed or they moved on.
They're still birds.
They moved to Florida.
Whatever.
They weren't around.
So I had a lot of late nights by myself in my basement.
With a glass of whiskey.
I started to have that feeling come back.
Of that like failure feeling.
And I didn't know what to do.
I was like, what did I get myself into?
You know, like, what are you doing?
Like, how do you, what am I doing?
And then I figured, like, I cannot.
Basically, like, I can't do this alone type of situation.
And in a conversation with my father and a house like,
Joe, man, I need to talk to somebody who's like,
Ben there and done that and like,
done built something from nothing.
And he's like, PD's like, I've got a friend that he did some work for.
And his bulldozer.
My father loves to have me mechanical.
I've been machinery mechanic.
And so we made a phone call to this guy, John.
I'll leave his last name out.
And John said, yeah, I'll meet with Pete.
He said, here's the date and time.
Meet me at my lake house.
So I showed up at his lake house.
And I sat down and he shook my hand.
And he said, let me tell you something.
You're not fucking special.
I'm already Pete down.
Just, I'm using his words.
You're not fucking special.
Your ideas aren't special.
And nobody gives his shit.
I was like, okay.
Motivational speaker.
Get an after it.
No, nobody gives his shit.
They said, reality check.
Yeah, I was like, oh shit.
He goes, what's your problem?
I said, man, I, we need money to, like, he was like, no, you don't.
I said, no, we need money to do this.
To learn how to do this and build this and, like, make this happen.
I need money, the capital.
He goes, Pete.
Were you in the back of your mind thinking you had good capital investor right here?
Is it a big guy with Lake Allison?
Maybe this guy's going to throw you,
do you, geez, at you?
No.
I wasn't there for financial.
A financial.
I wasn't looking for that.
But that was the solution that you saw.
You didn't, that's the only solution.
You just thought, I need money for this thing.
Only solution.
I need money.
And as he kind of like beat me down.
And this guy ran like a 50, I think they're $100 million company now.
I thought that point was $50 million.
And he was kind of retired and doing this thing.
And giving his time to me for free to help another kid from industry,
main, succeed.
He basically educated me.
And two hours educated me.
And I walked away from that meeting, like, with a plan, a plan of action.
What was the big takeaways?
He told me I need to basically find out who I was and do a personality profile.
And he goes, you're probably what he say.
And I and FJ, something like that.
He like guessed it.
When I in EJ, I'm not even exactly sure what it was.
I did my personality profile to find out my strengths and weaknesses.
And it was spot on.
I was like, oh, he's shit.
This is kind of like crazy.
And then he told me, you're not all in.
You don't really want to win at this.
I was like, no, I do.
Then go all in.
How much do you believe in it?
Because it's a million freaking people like you.
He said, there's a million people like you and a million great ideas.
And less than 1% are willing to go and chase it and go all in and do it.
Are you one of those people?
And if you are, solve the money problem and solve the rest of the problems.
The next day I was at the bank signing my home away with my wife by my side.
She was stoked for a $200,000 loan.
That was tougher her.
Two things.
As you were saying them, there's a big difference.
You put them together, which is when you put them together, it makes sense.
But chasing your goals chasing your dream and being all in.
It's not the same thing.
Now, if you're all in and you have to chase it, you don't even know what else to do besides chase it.
But I think some people they chase it, but they're running like half speed.
And I was a half speed.
Yeah.
It's awesome.
You got to be uncomfortable.
That's basically what I took away from that.
And he's the one that told me.
He said, Pete, how old are you?
I said, I'm 30.
What's your problem?
I said.
I'm just going to get John on the podcast at some point.
I'm stuck.
Yeah.
I said, I'm stuck.
He goes, you got three more chances.
He's like, I'm 60.
You got three more chances.
He's like, if you believe in it, then he's the one that told me everything in life, everything
great takes 10 years to build.
Go build it and be committed because it's got to take 10 years to build it.
But if you believe in it, you have to go all in.
And if you've got to put up your house, put up your house.
You'll work your way out of it.
Eventually.
So that's what I did.
I followed his advice.
And I went all in.
He also told me the moment you stop growing, you die.
He said, if you stop growing, you will die.
The moment you want to do something different than what you're doing.
The moment your mind wanders to wanting to be somewhere else, your business also dies.
And you need to recognize that.
And that first meeting with him was just, it just changed my, changed my game.
And when I signed my name on that loan, when I signed my home to the bank to receive that check,
I was laser focused.
It's like being in the woods on an early morning hunt when it's dark in the sun is coming up
and the leaves go.
Right.
The sun hits the leaves, hits the trees and you're waiting for the deer for whatever you're
hunting.
That's what I felt like about business.
The same feeling you get from that I felt laser focused in it's like everything just opened up.
Like my mind opened like the synapses connected in I was like a new, a new, a new,
I knew I was like new.
And that's what I mean by like you can't hear.
At least born in entrepreneur.
You're not born in entrepreneur.
You need to get punched in the face and John punched me right in the nose.
It was awesome.
So the next step is you order some material, but that's not your long term plan.
And the next thing you do is you go we got to make this material.
We got to make this material.
I had called every use textile company in the United States, every use textile company
to try and find this machinery.
We had to weave our own fabric.
It wasn't a sustainable model without weaving our own fabric.
They were all like, she's not going to happen.
I'm like, what is it to get set up?
A million dollars, right?
750 grand.
This is to buy a brand new loo.
This is to buy the operational experience in there.
They're going to send you from the factory after they build this loo.
They'll send you a guy that's going to help you run it.
Yeah, we just need a million dollars.
Yeah, exactly.
It's just not going to happen.
I was like, okay, in business, it's like boxing, like it's like the Gitu.
It's all about the angles.
You know, when people get so stuck on like one angle, they can only see that one angle.
And I just had to like, I had to step to the side and I had to see this angle.
I knew Maine had a heritage in weaving.
I knew there was weaving here at one point.
And so I went back to that same old time, reduced in Maine, who had sold me my fur,
sewing machine, and I sat in his office, and I said,
No, where there are any looms.
Is that what you mean?
A weaving loom?
Like to weave fabric?
He goes, getting my truck?
I get in this truck.
We drive up one street and get out.
And this is massive building.
It's like, I think total square footage was like 1.5 million square feet.
Mostly abandoned.
A few businesses in the front that they've refurbished.
And there's a museum there.
And then walks in and introduces me to this woman Rachel.
And he says, Rachel, this is Pete.
He's looking for a loom.
And she goes, well, follow me.
She made me sign a release.
We went up these stairs and into this old mill five.
And the floorboards, the windows were all broken.
The sock tooth building, you know, the sock tooth mill buildings.
And windows were all broken.
The wood was all punky and like, like, a bent-op and splinter.
You had like watch where you're walking.
And there's this big green nasty thing sitting in the middle of floor.
Right there in this whole place.
And we walk over to it.
She's like, I need to get rid of this.
And I'm like, this is a loom.
And she's like, yep.
She's the holy shit.
Where's the rest of them?
They ship them overseas.
They're company and India bought us bought about $1,000.
They shipped everything overseas.
And she goes, I kept this one.
I kept it here because I wanted to put it in the museum.
So we didn't lose our heritage.
I said, can I buy it?
And she said, yep.
That's it.
I'll watch it.
$3,000.
That's it.
Done.
Man.
And this was like, I just want to point this out.
The the the floor is all broken.
The windows are broken.
And the loom is like rusty, right?
Oh, dude.
This is not like this.
This thing is disaster.
When was the last time it was used?
How many years ago?
Oh, 80s.
It was it's in 83.
It's like a 1983.
I don't know when the last time it was used.
But it hadn't been had any to love for it a long long time.
Most of the parts were stripped off of it.
It was like a frame just like an infrastructure.
I said, okay, I'm I'm I'm going to buy this loom.
Yeah.
So you've got to be a little bit naive to be in business and think you can accomplish anything.
That's the bottom line.
And I was pretty pretty driven and naive to think that we could weave fabric.
But I believe we could.
So she sold me it.
And then I called my father-in-law and I said, I got a loom.
It's on the third floor of this old mill in Louis,
in Maine.
And when he needed to get it out.
And I got a quote on moving in and it was $25,000 to move it.
And I'm like we're going to move it.
And he's like.
Okay.
So I got a bunch of friends.
We went up there.
Took nine guys, eight hours to move it from the middle to the floor to the edge of the building.
And we had another friend who had a crane and we ended up getting it out and onto a trailer and put it in the factory.
And then we were like, well, are we doing dude?
It was awesome.
So that's where it started.
You know, I always believe like if it was done, it can be done.
Like if it, if, if, you know, in Maine, we have this thing like,
Maine at one point was 90% field.
How to become 90% field, you know, 100 years ago.
Hands and daylight.
Right?
So these mill buildings built hands and daylight.
That's it.
These people, they got after it.
I mean, why?
Because if you don't, you die.
That's it.
You're going to die.
So you've got a farm.
You've got to know how to build a house.
You got to know how to start a fire.
Like that culture of New England is still rich.
You know, it's still passed down.
We burn wood.
Everybody burns wood.
We build our own shit.
You know, houses, everything.
That's what we do.
Why is everybody saying we can't manufacture.
We can't, we, we can't cut in the so.
That's bullshit.
If they did it, we can do it because they did it with a lot less.
I found a guy, Lenny.
When that mill shut down, he had a contract to go over to Pakistan,
Pakistan of all places.
To teach them how to run the looms that were purchased.
And a month later, it was 9-11.
And he didn't go.
And he stayed here.
Thank God because he's the last.
He's like the last one.
Left of that can actually get this thing going.
And make it work again.
I asked Lenny, how many people know what you know.
He said, a whole bunch.
I said, what's a whole bunch?
He's like a five.
So he, Lenny passes knowledge on us, weaving,
pattern making for textiles and all this stuff.
And that's a whole nother story.
Maybe for a different time.
But we started weaving fabric.
And we became vertically integrated.
And we started making the product from Rockhawn from textiles.
What did he feel like the first time that thing created fabric?
He must have been freed.
We were just like, he's just like, we had the, we had the,
like we had to make Pearl weave.
And so we did.
We made Pearl weave.
We looked up Pearl weave of part.
That was like from the imported fabric.
We just picked it apart and Lenny looked at it and figured out what?
Size thread, you know, yarns and the weight and everything.
So we just recreated it.
And he turned it on for the first time.
You know how long took to clean that thing?
40 man hours to clean it.
Like it just, they need to cleaning.
Before we did anything cleaning, then we had to buy it all the parts.
Or have a machine.
And just to get it going in.
He turned it off for the first time.
And it was like, boom.
And I looked at John, my employee John Lenny and I said, oh,
oh, he sh**t.
And then, and there it comes.
And there's the Pearl weave coming off the loom.
Man, it was so exciting.
I was like, nobody's ever done this.
Nobody's ever done this.
And it was, I was super proud.
I was like, we're, we're freaking doing it.
We are doing it.
And then we announced it to the world.
We thought we still got a lot of work to do.
But now we announce it to the Jiu Jitsu world.
Sit, man.
How do you even want to tell you the challenges after weaving?
How do you color this stuff?
How do you do this?
How many of this?
I was telling you before when I was in this single team
in the early 90s.
We didn't have the custom gear, right?
You couldn't buy this stuff on the internet from these tactical companies, right?
So we made stuff.
And we had parachute rigors, which are the people that pack parachutes.
But in a parachute loft, you've got a nice medium duty.
And sometimes a heavy duty, so we machine.
And so we would make our own gear.
And us guys, like, we would kind of get into it a little bit.
And I, you know, I had us a lot of seals.
Would have their own, you know, sewing machines.
And, you know, you make gear.
And some people would be good at it.
Some people would get really good at it.
And I was not one of those people.
And because, you know, there's these little threads.
And you've got to get these things working right.
You pull it through the fable and through the fable and through the fable.
So obviously stuff.
It's all this stuff.
Yeah.
And so, and every time I like start sewing,
it would just, you know, fall apart.
Like birds nest and just mayhem.
And when I see, like, the loom.
Yeah.
With, it looks like stress you out.
One billion twins coming through these little things.
And, and they're flowing through.
And then you look on the other side and all that craziness.
There's like these hundreds of thousands.
It looks like little pins that are moving and things that are pulling apart.
And crazy.
And then it comes out the other side and you see this pattern.
Yeah.
And it, it, it makes me, it actually does stress.
I mean, I can't be in here for too long because I'm freaking out.
Just thinking, if I get too close to these things.
Oh yeah.
My, my presence will cause disturbances in the fable.
Yeah.
And things will be wrong.
I'm not allowed to be in there for very long because I'm like,
I'm, I've got, I've got an issue, you know,
a subliminal issue with threads.
And so I keep, even today, I have to keep in a little distance from the machines.
Yeah.
I don't want to found them up.
You guys have the magic.
Yeah.
I'm like, stay away from that.
But you had to see that.
And to even imagine it, like, you know, again, as a novice person,
working with a sewing machine as a young kid, the, how hard it was for me to do it.
And then, like I was watching Jill, the other way, I'm,
I'm, I'm just hammering.
You're just, it's like, such a good craft, such a good skill to have.
And, and just to see the loom and all those different parts,
you're saying yourself, well, for one thing,
but good luck, like somebody wants to do what we're doing.
Oh, go.
Yeah.
Do it.
Have fun with that one.
Not happening.
By the way, we bought the last loom.
It's in your ass.
Yeah.
It's your screw.
If you had your screw, yeah, absolutely.
And, and the last bit of knowledge would succeed, which exists.
Yeah.
Man.
And so then, you know, you, you take and you start weaving it.
And now you start to sell geese and how the business going now.
Now you're able to put on something, made in the USA.
100%.
And that's from the dirt to the shirt.
Yeah.
Can we rock it?
I'm ready.
Dirt to shirt, right?
I mean, because the finish, because the cotton is coming from Tennessee, Delta region,
Tennessee, spun in the Carolinas and shipped up to us.
That's like the, that's old school.
Freaking right?
It is the way.
It's the way.
It's the work.
That's old school.
Making shit, you know?
I mean, I talked today a little bit at our grand old school.
But at our grand opening about like,
Manors.
Generations of folks that put their hands on something, right?
They're makers.
They need to make something.
And they're trying to cross train these people to.
Type on a computer, you know, do mundane office type of tasks, filing papers,
answering the phone and call centers.
These people want to make shit.
We're known in Maine for being some of the best crafts people in the world.
The products that come from Maine are some of the best products in the world.
And to be part of resurrecting that heritage is, it's incredible.
You know, and it is our ultimate mission.
You know, to resurrect our heritage and manufacturing and build old world level quality products and stand behind it.
Stitch.
Every stitch.
Every yarn in the weave.
And that's what we're all about.
And that's what origin stands for.
We're the little bit more modern look and feel.
But sourcing and manufacturing 100% in the US.
And I, I, we won't compromise on that.
At ever.
Like other companies do when they get greedy.
And they say, well, it's time to look at the numbers.
It's time to increase the margins and we got to import some of the stuff.
And we're not just not doing it.
It's not happening.
I was in that background works for the awesome, the Christening of the USM Michael Montsour.
Obviously named after Michael Montsour.
And it was awesome for me.
You know, I, I, I, in listen to the Navy from down in Portland.
And to come back 20, six years later.
And see what you're talking about.
What, what I knew existed in New England in Maine.
And, and see in the pride that these, you know, ship builders,
the iron workers that the pride that they took in that ship named after a,
a, a saint of a human being.
And, you know, that's one of the things that I tied to.
And I was like, you know, you know, you're going to get to the origin.
Because I knew what you were doing up here.
Yeah.
And, you know, to kind of get to how we ended up joining forces.
It's funny because, you know, you were just some guy, you know,
some crazy guy up in Maine in my opinion, that I'd, well, I'd seen a couple of your videos.
And I've seen it.
I see a dude, you know, you have the video that shows you pulling this freaking loom out of this factory.
And I'm just thinking of myself, this guy is insane.
And I think I like him.
And, and, and I had actually, the funny thing is for my Jim and San Diego,
Victory MMA, I wanted to make Jiu-Jitsu Giz in America.
And so I was like, okay, this, I looked around.
I find one guy that's doing it.
It's you.
We, like, three or four years ago, we went back and forth on email.
And, you know, nothing ever came of it.
Because, you know, I was busy.
You were busy and just nothing happened.
But I always just remember, hey, you know what?
This guy up in Maine, he's, he's, he's doing what he's doing.
It the right way.
And what happened was the way we actually got connected was I was on a face book live.
Just talking to people.
And someone says, what kind of geesh did I get?
And I just rattled off.
I go, hey, man, if you're gonna, if you need a geet, you're starting to jitsu or you're good at jitsu or you just want a good geet.
I go, get a geet from origin.
Origin main.com.
I go, get a geet from there. I go, this crazy guy up there.
He fixed a looove.
I can't say it without laughing.
He's so crazy.
I'm like, he took a loom out of a broken factory and he re-verbored that thing with his team and they built, you know, they're doing it.
They're building it.
So if you need a geet, I said, I'm trying to talk to this guy because I had reached out to you a couple times if two very even since the time I asked for four gees.
Right.
I'd said, since you need mail or something.
And I said, you know, I'm trying to talk to anybody knows this guy.
His name is Pete. I go, tell him I said, what's up.
And this, this awesome woman that listens to podcasts.
Her name is Sarah Armstrong and she's super square away, you know, a professional with a big company.
And she, you know, she did communicate with a various things over the over the past year that I've been doing the podcast and whatnot.
And for, she said, oh, I'll take that for action.
And she contacted me.
She contacted me.
She called me.
She said, what would she say?
She just said, you basically she's like, have you heard of this guy,
Jock Willink and do them sorry.
I had my head up my ass for the last five years trying to build this factory.
No factor.
And I was like, you're like, who?
No.
And then so, you know, what do I do?
I dig and like, holy shit.
Like this guy is making some waves.
This is awesome.
And so I did a little recon.
And then I reached out to after that.
And what's awesome is like, I had no idea what we were going to do.
Yeah.
You know, we went back and forth a couple times an email and then find me, you're like, hey, man, let's, let's just go to Skype.
Right.
Let's do Skype.
Because we'd been, I today, you know, do you want to do something?
You're like, I want to do something.
Like, no, let's figure it out.
So I have my meetings like scheduled and I'm working all day.
Sure.
And I blocked two hours.
I'm like, you know what, this is probably going to take a while to get this conversation going.
I'm about two hours.
We're just going to get on Skype and make this happen.
We'll figure out what we can do.
So we end up talking on Skype for four hours.
Talking, laughing, talking, laughing, yelling, laughing, laughing, laughing.
After I got off my wife goes, it sounded like you were talking to you.
That's not good.
It's just a little scared.
And it was just, you know, it was awesome.
For me, it was, you know, the things that I believe in as an American as a person, as a New Englander,
it was like you had the thing that I didn't have.
Right?
Like, you know, for instance, we're making things, we're building things, but we don't have vertical integration.
We don't, we don't, we weren't doing it the way I want to get it done.
And so, you know what I'm saying?
Hey, like, let's join forces.
Yeah, absolutely.
And from my perspective, of course, I was like, the student is for real.
I was like, I don't want to tell my wife, I'm like, man, it's guy.
He's on another level.
And we had been like looking for somebody.
I remember talking with the deco and it's like, in GG2, it's like, you've got all these world champs.
And then you have like the flavor of the month guys with like the fancy GG2 stuff.
And we just, it just never part of our plan to sponsor GG2 world champions, right?
Because what we were trying to build is like much bigger than that.
It's like, man, we've been talking for like a year.
Like we need to, we need to find somebody or partner somebody with somebody that like represents origin through and through.
In multiple ways, this isn't possible.
We will not find this person.
It's not possible.
And then we talk.
You know, we were talking earlier today.
This was, this was classic because I didn't remember this.
So for those of you that know anything about negotiation, whether you're negotiating car purchase or whatever.
One of the things, one of the tactics of negotiation is you don't give a number first.
So if I want, if echo wants to buy these sunglasses, he, he says, how much of these.
I don't say they're 10 bucks because what if he was willing to pay 20, right?
So so, you know, if he says, how much of these, I go, well, you know, what are you willing to pay for?
And he should say, well, you know, I don't know, what are they worth to you?
And so Pete and I had the textbook.
It was more than that though because it was, it was the strategies.
It's like, what do you got to do?
You've got to devalue or show value.
Yeah.
So going back and forth.
Well, yeah.
Yeah, but, you know, it's like, you know, back and forth battle, battle, battle.
Yeah.
And then I came.
And it's, so I were trying to figure out the value of whatever of something.
And, and I'm like, well, you know, like, I don't just give, I mean, what if you had to,
what would you say, number of people that and he's, you know, he's gives me X.
And I didn't remember doing this pretty till we did that.
And then I remember, as you said, you know, the value's probably X.
And I went, you're weak.
He's broken.
We both started laughing this together.
Because we've been playing the game for so long.
It was like, actually, that is what, like both,
I think both of us realized, like, we were just, let's just get it.
Let's do this.
Yeah.
But actually, you know, I'm busy, you're busy.
And so we, and we actually, we both definitely got along.
Yeah.
We, I mean, I think both of us felt really solid about the other person.
But we didn't quite figure out how to, we couldn't figure out how to make this work.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, he's got something that he's put years of blood, sweat, tears into.
I've got something that I've been doing my life has been to get to here.
And so we just couldn't quite figure out how this is going to work.
So we just, you know, we kept in touch.
A little bit of conversation over the next, you know, couple months.
And then I knew I was going to Maine.
You, you, you, you, you kept.
I got to ask you something now.
You know, you, you, you're coming to Maine.
I knew you were coming to Maine.
Neither of us, like, we didn't text back and forth until the last minute.
Because I knew the date you were coming to Maine.
Uh huh.
Did you, were you planning on a meeting when you came to Maine the whole time?
I definitely knew we needed to meet.
Yeah.
He's like, you were icing me.
You put me on the ice, dude.
I thought I was putting you on ice.
We were both on ice.
Yeah.
So that was an, that was like the meeting.
Awesome.
We met up in Portland.
Uh, we had dinner.
We actually both brought our wives.
And I, my wife is always too busy to do anything business-wise with her.
So she was super stoked to even be around and meet Amanda and everything.
And, you know, you, we sat there.
Our wives don't even know what they were doing because I would just end it up.
We were getting so cold.
And, and at the end of the night, we figured out.
And we were doing this.
And we shook hands.
And, and I knew right there.
We were good.
We, we, we crafted the deal that was awesome.
Yep.
It was awesome for both of us.
It was awesome for everything that both of us won.
Which Eve.
And it, it, it, it turned into not even both of us.
It's just turned into us.
Exactly.
And that was awesome.
And I think one of the best like lessons.
Learn from.
From you, what is.
Just an incredible opportunity.
The deal is making sure that you're both getting what you want and you're both a little bit uncomfortable.
So that you continue to.
Feel a little bit of the struggle to make sure you can take it over the goal line.
Right.
You're too comfortable.
You become complacent.
Bite off a little more than you can chew.
And you're going to be chewing for much longer.
So that's, that's something that was important.
It was awesome.
Yeah.
And so just so everyone knows.
I mean, I've been saying it like, we're partners.
You know, we're partners with, with the podcast and what, what echo and I've been doing for the last a couple years.
And what, what has been, has been doing for the last five years, seven years, five, five years, five, five years, five, five, six years, six years.
And, and at the end of the night when we got done eating our stakes in Portland, Maine, we show cans and this whole, you know, you've described it as like a perfect storm, which is what it feels like to me.
It is a house-borne and glossy.
There you go.
It is the perfect storm.
We are the perfect storm.
Yeah.
And so that's what's going on is that, you know, now we've got this.
And we join forces and that we, we both complement each other's, you know, in terms of our business, we complement each other's weaknesses, in terms of our personalities, we complement each other's weaknesses.
And we're, and the best part about it is the whole time that we're doing it.
We're actually laughing our asses off at each other.
It's a great time, which is, which is what it's all about.
So that's what we're hot.
That's why we're here.
By the way.
Yeah.
That's why we're here.
By the way, it farming to me in the origin factory 20,000 square feet.
We're going to end up with how many employees in here.
In a year, how many employees we're going to have in here?
Oh, probably in a year.
I don't know, 30, 40, 50.
I mean, somewhere in there, you know, between 30 and 50.
That's in a year.
But remember, this is a start.
We're starting.
And so in five years, we're going to have a lot of people.
Oh, yeah, we're in people ask, what are you going to make?
Everything.
And I say, we're going to make everything.
Everything that I use in my life, I want it made here in America from the shorts to the hats.
Everything.
And that's what we're going to do.
Beenies.
Uh, probably pants, bigger pants.
You know what?
How is that a store the other day?
Uh, you know, like a hardware store, but a big one, where they sell work clothes.
And I said to myself, you know, let's just, because obviously I'm thinking about this all the time now.
You know, it's hard to look at work clothes.
And you say, of course, American workers, they would want to wear American made clothes.
Where are these clothes made?
They're not made here.
They're not made in America.
They're not made by American hands.
So I think we're going to be going to take no prisoner scenario.
And we're going to do it after it.
Or not just kind of take no prisoner.
We're going to chase the big dogs.
Look out.
Listen and look out.
And that's not, that's not like an ego thing.
That's a truth.
Yeah.
Listen and look out.
And like I said, today, when you, when you rekindle the fire of manufacturing and the, you rekindle,
I mean, just talking to talking to the employees here.
This is what they want to do.
100% and this is what they made to do.
That's right.
And like you said, they want to take these things and build them with their hands.
You've got it.
And that opportunity has been taken away in the last 25 years.
And we're bringing it back.
And that is awesome.
Appreciate that.
Glad to have you as part of it.
Awesome.
That's what we did echo Charles.
Right.
My brother.
Speaking of what we do.
Sure.
Why don't you do what you do?
I have a question.
After you ask a question.
Do you find it?
Poledic that the origin logo is that circle.
Remember when you're getting shit from the politicians.
That's funny.
You never thought about that.
And now you have an origin logo that's a circle.
It is.
So that kind of in and of itself is like a circle.
Yeah.
Actually, it is a wave.
It's actually like a rip curl wave.
Is that what that logo is?
It's the flow.
Did you do too flow?
The surf flow.
It's a wave.
It's what that is.
It's breaking symbolic.
It's what it's calling.
I was going to say ironic, but that's not ironic.
No symbolic symbolic symbolic symbolic.
So yeah.
I don't even remember who that politician was.
Doesn't matter.
Nope.
They're going to know that origin symbol.
I'm going to try.
In the industry.
We call that layers.
True story.
Anyway, speaking of layers.
Got it.
And support, by the way.
Support the spotcast.
And yourself.
Originmain.com.
Speak of the devil.
Yeah.
That's how you could support.
That's all.
Good to know.
What do we got, geez.
So that's the thing.
From the beginning, people ask what's the key to get?
We know.
We know now.
100%.
You know, you have like a hierarchy.
Yeah.
We can only have one.
But you have multiple selections.
Yeah.
So they do.
We're about to like blow up our manufacturing.
And this new factory.
And grand opening today.
Lots of product coming.
Right.
On the geese side of stuff.
Yeah.
Ramping things up over the next.
What time frame?
We've started ramping over the next four to eight weeks.
Let's say we're going to be hiring another 16 people.
We put another loom in the factory.
So there's just three looms now.
And we're going to be weaving ninjas.
Like, like, for real.
Like, I mean, I didn't want to elaborate.
We just come come to Maine and see any time in the factory.
Come check it out.
I like it.
When are these shorts coming out that I'm wearing?
Oh, boy.
Because they're straight up my best shorts.
100%.
Yeah.
We're going to make it happen.
It's a video.
I said, thanks.
Yeah.
No.
Well, hey, I get that all the time.
Hey, when is the XYC coming out?
Hey, so not talking you.
Little bit.
You know, but yeah, these are straight up the best shorts.
Well, it's not actually that hard for you.
Because people say, when is that next?
Oh, you're talking about the gear side.
The Mersh.
The merchandise side.
And I do believe that it might be a little bit more work on pizza and compared to on my end.
A little bit.
But hey, I don't know from a, from a, if you go from like the level that you're currently cruising out,
yeah.
Maybe you both have to travel the same distance.
Yeah.
It is relatively dark.
Well, it's at least here.
I think you're right.
And yeah.
But not just geese, right?
No, no, no.
But just shorts.
You know, a peril.
Everything is, you know, our t-shirts are knit like we have a partner that knits, knits all the
fabric, like six hours away or something.
Everything's, everything's sourced and made here.
You know, when we make all our own compression of peril, like cutting so and sublimate,
die sublimation, everything.
You say compression of peril.
Yeah.
I still call the rashguard.
It's a rashguard.
I know.
I'm just, you know what I say compression of them.
Yeah.
Because I know it's not just the rashguard or rashguard is for surfing.
Right.
But, but, but, but, like the, like, the pants.
The pants.
They're calling it in the jujitsu community.
Don't we still say, yeah, I got a new rashguard.
Oh, yeah.
We still say.
I'm just making sure.
Yeah.
Because I wasn't like hearing someone at the gym saying, like, did you check out this new compression?
But in the wake room, there is, they do say that.
Yeah.
Because I, right.
I see like in football.
Yeah.
Like you'll see some company that's advertising compression.
Exactly.
But it's not, it's not on me.
You got to remember like every textiles different than what you used to, like, like, the
Warpwick we use our our textile for the rashguard or tits or whatever else.
It's different.
And you just called them tites.
I did because spats.
I have no idea what a spat is.
I'm just going to say out in California.
It's definitely called spats.
Yeah.
And I don't even know where that word comes from.
Brought spats.
I knew spats is when you tape your ankles.
It's a spat around the fleet.
Yeah.
You spat your legs.
But why did they even cut that?
I bet you.
Wait.
Did the spats go down your leg?
Like tights and then around your foot.
It was just tape over.
You know, it just crinkles.
But instead of your ankles under your socks.
Yeah.
tape over.
Over.
You shoe over everything.
Which is trainer stop doing because it's.
So why don't we call him compression.
I tell him this cool.
Yeah.
Because I'm going to be, you know, earlier we got kind of like wrapped around or we got
a side track about me being sensitive about something or not being sensitive.
Tights.
You're not down for time.
As a dude.
Right.
Don't wear it.
We're not wearing tights.
Yeah.
Compression pants.
That's a good compression shirt.
See.
There you go.
Compression shirt.
And rash pants.
Rashed guard pants.
That doesn't make sense either.
Doesn't.
Even though they do prevent rashes.
Just see if you're sure.
Or do you do it to that burn?
Okay.
You know why people, you know why a lot of people wear compression pants and compression shirts.
Injuditsu.
The prevention of the disease.
The funk.
Yeah.
Right.
They don't want the hanghorm.
They don't want that hanghorm.
They don't want, you know, whatever.
Very immersive.
That's what people wear that.
And you know.
The people that I know that wear it, they seem to believe in it.
Oh, yeah.
Just the level of it's not like a.
Like the, what's the sun protection?
Right.
That's 50.
Or yeah.
So you, you pf, you pf.
Right.
You pf 50.
There's no anti ringworm percentage rating.
Right.
There's just the general anti microbeal.
Like, but that keeps it from growing in the material.
What I'm saying is if you wear like a compression shirt and compression pants,
Sure.
Then you're not rubbing your skin against some savage that came into the gym with ringworm.
Right.
So you have less percentage.
Or rolling with him too.
Yeah.
You don't need that.
So you don't want that time.
That's a good reason to wear compression gear.
Cross the board.
And the rash cards.
Right.
Like they're.
Now they're not like the rash cards you're used to.
The ones you put on and then they on talk and then you talk to me and they on talk and you talk to me and they're designed to stay tucked in.
So you put them on and the way the fibers flex and bend with your body.
It's not your mother's or grandma's rash card.
So when you say tucked in because you don't really tuck in a rash card, right?
Or do you.
You're talking about under the gear.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That's a whole new world.
Yeah.
Some places make you wear rash card under your gear.
I think it's good to have a rash card under your gear.
I know a lot of people think that.
It's not traditional.
I mean, I'm just reddish.
Yeah.
It's not like what you like.
I like the barrier.
I like the I like the g-
The rash or the I like the barrier.
Between the the fabric and the skin.
I like the compression because you compression muscle.
You get more use.
You're straight performance performance.
Yep.
Got it.
Absolutely.
The g-slides a little bit better on a rash card than it does your skin once it's all sweaty up and sticky.
Right.
So that's why you use it.
And I'm a hairy creek.
No one's the chest hair.
That's right.
You don't want that be no.
Yeah.
You're eat would be happy if we all wore rash cards.
She's our black belt at our gym female.
Mm-hmm.
And she is still a girl.
So things like chest hairs.
Yeah.
She's not happy about those things.
She begs me to wear, you know, something under my geek.
She's so far failed.
Ha ha.
She failed on my problem.
Oh, yeah.
But, um, you know, the other thing is, you, we didn't talk about origin main dot com is supplements.
Absolutely.
So on the body and in your body, there you go.
It's it.
Yeah.
We're going to put everything you need on your body and everything you need in your body.
Crill oil.
Yep.
That's really, that's the, that's the one.
Now it's acrylic oil and then it's super acrylic oil.
One of the things that, um, you know, you'll be happy, you know, that peat and I,
we like to make things happen.
And, you know, obviously, I'm a big fan of acrylic oil, for instance.
So, you know, I was, I used to be a fan of white tea, a big fan.
And I drank it a lot.
And eventually I said, you know what I need?
This is Jockel white tea.
And so I had a similar thing happen with acrylic.
I want to have acrylic oil.
Good acrylic oil.
So you know what we're making?
Yeah.
Actually, we like to call it Jockel super.
Super acrylic oil.
So Jockel super acrylic.
We're making that awesome quality.
On top of that, we got a little again.
Little, we need joint maintenance, right?
Any joint maintenance when we are active, when we're training Jitsu, when we're Jack and Big Steel.
We are turned into everything, going a little bit slower.
So we might not admit to it in public, just like we wouldn't admit to crying.
Right?
On a public situation, ever, I'm comfortable with my masculine baby.
I'm over here, not crying.
No, don't cry.
Don't cry.
My wife says, the only time you cry is babies and belts.
Someone gets promoted and someone has a kid.
What about weddings?
No.
Funerals and weddings.
So we got another thing we're coming out with.
It's, uh, Jocco, joint warfare.
For your joints, go to war against the pain.
Inflammation, go to war.
Inflammation, inflammation.
Oh, that's up.
I'll end them easy.
Yeah.
I've been kicking it for since we, since we originally formulated.
Yep.
And I got the samples.
I went on it hardcore and it's legit.
Yeah.
I legit.
across the board.
I still want about that.
I have like bad back from sports and stuff.
Herniated disc, bulging disc.
Didn't get surgery.
Severe arthritis.
I can train seven days a week if I want to do as a matter of fact.
We have our immersion campus week.
Train every day.
Get some.
Every day.
That's it.
Joint warfare.
Yep.
Keeping it real.
So that stuff.
We, it's being manufactured.
We, I've been on the samples for what?
A month and a half.
And now it's been being manufactured in America.
Check.
And very close by right by a partner.
Right.
And so it's going to be on the website now.
Pre-order it.
And that way we can get to get a feel for how much.
Because we got a bunch coming.
Mm-hmm.
We need to figure out how much of a bunch is that actually means.
Yeah.
So kind of like with Jocco White tea.
I didn't do that.
I was going to walk away.
Tea for sale.
It was gone.
Yeah.
I'm going to order some more.
And then that was gone.
And people were really getting angry because when you, you know, when you have
a Jocco White tea.
And then you don't have it.
All of a sudden, you know, you things start going sideways.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
So you're going to get that extra.
So anyways, you can check those things out.
OriginMain.com.
There'll be there.
Joint warfare.
You like that, don't you?
I do.
Yeah.
There's a layer on there.
That's deep.
Yeah.
The one person that's going to get this layer is Dean Lister.
Yep.
Trebuji.
I'll leave it at that.
Oh, you know Trebuji.
Yeah.
A lot of moving parts on a Trebuji.
Gotta keep him grease.
Gotta keep that joint.
Sure.
Also speaking of Jack and steel.
Can't help bells.
So when we came here, we're in Main right now.
People haven't gathered that already.
Up in camp.
No.
There's a big weight room.
Right.
Kinda.
There's a little fitness center there.
Yeah.
First night, we get here.
One guys, they came.
I brought my on it.
Kettlebell.
Yeah.
Seven.
John.
Yeah.
It was John.
On a kettlebell.
The gorilla.
On a regular.
Yeah.
That's the good ones.
You do kettlebells?
I don't.
You stopped lifting that.
Oh, that's right.
Stop.
I did.
Well, kettlebell.
Two massive.
I don't want to bring this up because we talked about this pre-recording.
Yeah.
So you wait 250 feet right now as we talked about.
You used to wait 280 five.
And I asked this question.
And this is a good question that everybody should kind of hear the answer to.
Could the 250,000 250 pound.
Yeah.
Pete beat the 285 pound.
Pete in a grappling match.
And your answer was 100%.
The smaller guy wins.
Yes.
Why is that?
I mean, lots of reasons.
You're more flexible, better positioning.
Better escapes because it's less mass burning less oxygen.
Because you have less muscle mass.
And for me, I would wear the 285 version of myself out.
Right.
So it's, I stop.
And I love lifting weights.
I love lifting weights.
But for me, you do two fulfills the void because it is resistance.
You're always working.
I never feel out of shape.
Well, unless I have too many will be pies.
What?
Did you do anything to work out besides GJ2?
No.
Do you run?
Do you sprint?
No.
Just pure GJ2.
I do Dean Mr. tells me that.
Yeah.
When Dean Mr. doesn't want to work out, doesn't want to do any, you know,
sprints.
He's like, man, I get it from GJ2.
That's what I'm best thing.
So now you're supporting his argument.
Now I get it. Now I got to deal with that.
Would you be Robert said, you know,
What is that?
Well, we'll talk about some day.
How GJ2 makes you unathletic.
Oh, really?
That's a whole other talk.
Interesting.
And I have facts on why it makes you unathletic.
What it keeps you, it keeps your body together.
You're caught together.
You're muscle strong.
So what does it do to make you unathletic?
It's slow movement.
You slow.
You start when you start GJ2.
Your body slows down.
Your mind slows down. Your muscle slowed down.
Whatever you had for fast twitch turns the slow twitch because you're pulling and
tugging and you're moving slow.
I used to be able to dunk a basketball.
So every dunk can touch the rim now.
I think we need to.
I will go ahead and defend the GJ2 over here on my side of the table.
Because if you continue to do cleans and you continue to squat.
Yeah.
And you continue to sprint and mobility drills and agility drills.
You can keep that athleticism.
I think you're right.
I know you're right.
Jack.
That's what I did when I competed.
I had a strength in conditioning.
Oh, yeah.
Sprint lift push pull.
So I guess big picture is one of those deals where it kind of
confirms the idea that you don't have to be athletic to do good in GJ2.
Generally speaking,
but if you want to do some kind of athletic competition,
including but not limited to GJ2,
it helps to be athletic.
Jack's a material.
Yeah.
I'm kind of glad that you kind of hit him with that because when I said I stopped doing
like legs and stuff like that, I got a lot of crap for it.
Yeah.
You know, I did a lot of squats and college.
You put all college football.
Hell yeah.
I'm scared of them.
I like hacksquats.
Man, for sure.
You got bad knees or something?
Bad back.
Yeah.
That last time I squatted and I hit the floor, right?
Of course, bad back.
Bad back from years of major and personal question.
Does your ego not allow you to get in there and do 185 pounds for some higher reps?
Nope.
I do that 100%.
But you still don't like it.
I do hacksquats.
I still don't like it.
But I mean, it's.
Steel is great.
Yeah.
That's the bottom line.
It is great.
I just get a 2-JJ2 man.
I push.
I do, you know, every time I step on the mats, it's 6-10 minutes rounds and I train to the break.
So I'm doing 12 minute rounds.
Nice.
I make sure to get six.
Yeah.
And I get it as things free up.
And my son wants to lift as he starts the summer.
I'll get in with him.
Yeah.
And we'll press him higher.
That sounded pretty hard.
He's all it.
Yeah.
If you want to go lift now, look at him.
You want to go lift.
Press him higher.
But kettlebells don't get you that.
I mean, I'm sure under certain circumstances, you will.
But they keep your athletic.
I think you'll.
Yeah.
And the other big thing is when you.
Like for a kettlebell snatch.
And when you're swinging motion and when it gets to the top, you have to stop it.
Right.
Because otherwise, you're going to rip your shoulder out.
So you have to use all this.
Whatever that kind of muscle.
What is it?
Echo centric or something.
Concentric.
Whatever you got to do this.
To stop it at the top.
Yeah.
You got to stop.
It's using all these muscles to make that thing happen.
That's cool.
Yeah.
I want to do it.
It's cool.
I got a chat on.
It'll get fun.
Yeah.
It's a moment.
I've got to create a moment when you got a balance.
It's like all this stuff.
It's fun.
College.
I said the true.
True test of how strong somebody is is a hankling.
Yeah.
They said you could bench a lot.
You could squat.
Yeah.
There's a lot of people.
What is there's a lot of things that you could say.
Like for instance.
You know, it's a good one overhead squat.
Oh, you got a great spot.
It's back.
If you got a guy that can do massive, big weight and or more medium weight high reps.
Yeah.
But on an hankling, you got to use your speed also.
It's a little bit explosive.
So you could just go straight to the snatch.
Yeah.
Right.
But then again, the snatch, you need the balance at the top.
That's coordination.
Yeah.
And you know, all these things.
So any depends on what you mean by strong too.
So you know, like, I guess, you know, in certain circles, they cost strength, power
and strength about two different things.
And it's like, okay.
So what are you talking to him?
So I dig it and I agree actually.
But this is also 20 years ago.
Yeah, exactly right.
If you're in another point to consider, you know, that's a really good change.
Yeah.
You agree.
You said, hey, in clean right.
Hey, in clean.
Me is that's a real master.
Yeah.
The solid metric.
For sure.
Deadlift another solid metric, by the way.
Yeah.
Raw strength.
That's right.
Yeah.
Because consider, remember, by like, when you're a kid or maybe old school kind of philosophy,
it's like, hey, you know, you get the old timer and you're like,
how strong are you?
And you're like, real strong.
Okay.
Pick that up.
You know what I mean?
Okay.
You can pick it up.
You're weak.
Yeah.
And then the step two is pick it up over your head.
You got that lift.
You got lift.
Yeah.
You don't lift.
No.
Just kidding.
Yeah.
Do you want to do something?
Let's not do that again.
You got to get the fire.
Yeah.
Don't get you nuts with that though.
Who's that?
Who's just talking to somebody there?
There are lots of deadlifts.
It was Ed.
Yeah.
He was like, hey, you know, my back and stuff.
I was like, don't get crazy with deadlifts.
No.
But you can talk to plenty of people that say, oh, I had a bad back.
And I deadlifted it now.
It's healed.
Right.
Plenty of people say that.
Absolutely.
Crazy with them because it'll just give you good gems strength.
Like, your your backs bad because a lot of times anyway, even just anywhere in your
core is because when you have like some core or the or your back or something, when you
do stuff, you adjust to not use it, you know, so deadlift.
Yeah.
You're using it.
So now when you do some thing, you're grabbing the cranberry juice from this side.
You're going to put it over here.
You had a bottle of floor.
Yeah.
You know, you're like, how did I do that?
I just got it on a long cranberry juice.
That's, that's your, that's your, that's your, that's your bottle bro.
You shouldn't be that's your body's way of telling you.
Don't want that.
You're right.
Yeah.
Maybe you're grabbing it from here putting in the trash.
I'm just saying that's why though.
So you go deadlift, not heavy, not crazy.
Just like your body's like, like any lifting.
It's like your body just getting used to it.
So boom, you're used to picking stuff up.
I'm going to try it.
Do it.
I like it.
Try the kettlebells too.
And if you want the cool ones, and when I say cool, it's like you look at them in
their cool.
Yeah.
Like irrefutably cool on it.
That's the ones.
The gorilla one.
Actually, they do the gorilla on the first one.
Do the chimp one first.
Yeah.
They like, what does she about me that I'm straight to zombies?
We're just super strong.
There's a, we have the same categories.
Yeah.
And I feel what they're all called.
But like, when I look at the legend,
versus the gorilla,
yeah.
ones or the primate ones,
to the zombies.
Yeah.
I wanted the ones that look crazy and evil.
I guess that's no big shit.
Makes sense.
I had to cram points.
Yeah.
I think we both, we all hear collectively.
No, why you want to zombies?
Technically, it's so, but that brings up good point in my opinion.
All the different categories,
primal bells.
That's the the chimp, the, you know, all the things,
different zombies, all zombies, legends,
where wolf, uh, cyclops, cyclops, like all the legends.
So boom, pick your category, but that's the cool ones.
I recommend.
What else?
Check them out.
Hey man.
Jump ropes off kind of.
Actually, it's kind of good you go on there.
And they have all kinds of workout stuff.
Like stuff, you know how, but you know how when you get
into a workout, maybe not you.
You're not like this, but like I got into the kettle bells
and it became fun, you know?
You know how like, if something becomes fun,
I stop doing it, do something that sucks.
Well, bang this is more boring.
What's psychological challenge?
She's huge.
But they got all kinds of like the maces and you know
all the workout stuff, whatever.
Anyway, that's a good one on it.com slash jockel,
check out that stuff and man get after it.
Even if you're getting bored, man,
you got some interesting stuff to work out with.
I'll recommend.
Awesome.
Also, if you like these books,
peep didn't write a book, wait,
do have you written a book before?
No, I wouldn't be so proud of that.
I wrote a long ass paper.
Yeah.
Well, I couldn't sleep over the last year, but
yeah.
So yeah, a little bit different.
But anyway, a lot of times,
jockel will review books on this podcast.
People like to get them.
If you're one of those people out there,
go to the website, jockelpodcast.com,
section, books from the podcast,
click through there to get the books.
That's a good way to support.
Takes you to Amazon or if you're doing any other shopping,
do it through there.
Big support, small action,
small action, big reaction.
Nice.
Also, subscribe to the podcast.
Mm.
Google Play.
We still feel the need to say that.
Yeah.
Because what?
Some people aren't subscribed.
In the event, uh, yeah, you know,
it's it.
I guess it's just our guests, my guests.
There's probably
high hypothesis speaking, this is my hypothesis.
What I'm saying, this is probably a marginal group,
who's like, eh, who's jockel?
I heard him on Joe Rogan or I don't know.
I seen him on whatever.
I think I'm listening to the podcast.
I was like, okay, cool.
I'm listening to a lemony listen to another one.
Okay, cool.
Maybe I'm not down.
You know, he's kind of weird.
Or just whatever they don't understand.
Like, oh, I can subscribe to this.
Like, I can just get it.
It'll tell me when it's coming.
Right?
Because a lot of people don't listen to podcasts.
Yeah.
I got a question for you about that.
Have you thought about,
because you, this is number 90.
Yes.
If you thought about breaking the podcasts into categories,
to speak to your audience,
because you cover such a broad audience,
when you say breaking them,
you mean just another section like,
cut them up?
No, no, no, the full podcast.
But like, where your cover books,
where you're talking about business,
where you're interviewing somebody,
breaking them up that way.
Yeah, they are.
It's been technically,
because it's not a linear.
Right.
You don't have to listen from one.
I recommend, when someone says, hey,
you know, I just heard your podcasts.
Oh, I heard, I heard,
I just listened to that podcast.
You just put out.
I want to listen to the rest of them.
Should I go backwards?
Should I go forwards?
And I tell people start at one.
And most of the people that I talk to that are
into the podcast, they're like,
that's the right advice.
Tell people start at one.
If I said, Jockel, I want to listen to your
really business related podcasts.
Right.
I couldn't could I do that or no.
What we are going to do,
and I have this in the background going into something
that I've been trying to get down for a while is,
we're going to kind of archive where you're going to be
able to maybe figure out, oh,
I want to listen to business boom.
And here's a podcast, you know,
the section.
Now whether or not we like chop them up
and put them into one group,
not yet, not yet.
Yeah, I mean, it's not organized.
We'll say, but it's one of those things.
You got to manually look, you know,
because it'll say what it's about.
In fact, the podcast, it's straight up by time stamp.
Yeah, it's like it's about stock.
It's about stock.
So you can kind of do it that way,
but no, not organized.
Like if you're, and it makes sense, though,
because if we're talking about a book and people like,
what love world or to love it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Boom, all right.
Yeah, there's 10 podcasts and one more or two.
Yeah, yeah.
And they can just get after it.
And then maybe, you know,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just like, yeah, yeah.
Good idea.
Pete, I like the house.
Big time.
But yeah, subscribe.
That's a good one.
If you haven't already, how about that?
If you haven't already subscribed, that's a good one.
Also YouTube, subscribe to that one.
Yeah.
That one's a little bit more like,
make sense to be like, hey, subscribe to YouTube.
And the big thing that you might not know is
if you're not subscribed to YouTube,
there could be things that are not in the podcast.
Yeah.
So let's say you like the podcast.
You're listening to it.
And you go, yeah, I've heard all the podcasts
I don't need to get YouTube.
You're wrong.
Yeah, because there could be things released into the YouTube
that have not been released.
For instance, deleted scenes.
Deleted scenes.
Which is us talking off the record about things like
people that have certain, you know, what issues.
What kind of issues, right?
What kind of issues?
Nothing, bro.
Black of squatting issues.
Yeah, Rosie.
Yeah, and I said, I stopped squatting because of,
actually, the technically the story goes, I stopped squatting
because my wife said, hey, your legs are like real big.
And it looks weird.
That's funny because my wife said, you're starting
to get an old man, but.
Okay.
Cool.
But.
Yeah, cool.
So what is the same thing?
And what does it mean?
I don't know.
I don't like it.
I don't like it, though.
I don't know what it means.
I don't like it.
I'm squatting.
You need to get on this wall.
You just squatting.
Yeah, yeah.
But like kettlebell swings boom.
Yeah, that's what it's like.
That's what it's like.
They say that the regular or the Russian kettlebell swings
goes to your channel.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I learned that the, all that stuff.
Either way, yeah, the deleted scenes.
That's what he was giving me shit about because I stopped squatting.
Actually, I didn't stop squatting.
I stopped squatting like hardcore legs.
You know what I'm saying?
You stopped squatting.
The point is, is you stopped squatting.
Yeah, no.
Anyway, yeah, deleted scenes are on there.
Like, excerpts too, you know?
Like, let's say you were like, hey, I liked that part.
And people still email me about that, by the way.
Or they're like, hey, what was that part or what episode was that from?
That part where whatever.
So instead of having to scour, it seems like just share that excerpts easy to find.
So yeah, that's the going to subscribe to YouTube.
Also, Jocco is a store.
It's called JoccoStore.
JoccoStore.com.
Guess what's on there?
Everything.
Potentially everything.
But as of right now, there's some shirts on there.
Women's stuff on there, patches on there.
You know, you put them on your hat interchangeable Velcro patches.
If you will.
Rash guards.
Awesome.
So now they have two options, huh?
JoccoRashguards get after it through through per darkness,
rashguards and origin rashguards.
Yeah.
Just like that, the selection just passed by.
Right.
And eventually, they're going to be, and this will be, will it all be?
Kind of melt together.
There we go.
There's one big vast, uh, just in place to just go in.
This place is going to be a melting pot of awesomeness.
Right.
Yeah, it's indeed.
Yeah.
But yeah.
All that.
So, and some hoodies on there.
Yeah.
I think we should consult.
No, he, I'm going to tell you.
I already know what he's going to say.
He's from Hawaii.
What do you want to lie away hoodie?
No, he, so he made hoodies.
And I'm from New England.
And so I was like, oh, you make a hoodie, you can wear it in like a full-fledged, artich store.
I mean, you'd better have a heavyweight gun hoodie.
So his, his, his, our, our, our light.
They're for their cool for so cow.
Yeah.
They're good for Hawaii.
If you even have hoodies in Hawaii.
They're like a fall hoodie, I guess.
And even that's like my guess.
I don't know.
That's why I'm saying we should, cause I mean, his is like his consultation things when
I consult him.
Like, hey, it's, it's like mixed in with a scolding.
So, you know, I get the scolding first thing.
I think I'm going to feel like maybe he's still doing it.
I want to make a really, really badass flatlocked hoodie.
What's to do it?
What is a flatlocked hoodie?
What is that?
Wait a sec.
Flat seemed hoodie.
How could we possibly do that?
What are we going to get someone to know how to make flatlocked, awesome badass hoodies?
Oh, wait.
We're sitting in a factory.
That's right.
We're awesome.
Get me get it.
I think we're gonna get it.
We're gonna get it.
That's good stuff.
Also.
Psychological warfare.
Previously, a few minutes ago, we talked about joint warfare for joint.
Yeah.
Degeneration.
Insumption.
All that stuff.
Overall, real generalization.
Supplementation for your body.
Yeah.
Sometimes you need supplementation for your mind.
For your mind, yes.
So in your campaign, against weakness, psychological weakness, you know, you're trying
to get up every day.
Right.
Stay to the diet.
Can that help me with eating multiple.
Yeah.
Multiple will be pies.
Yes.
Actually, there's an specific.
Yeah, for this.
You know, I'm definitely interested in that because that's been my one struggle as a human.
What is a will be pie?
A will be pie is like cake in with cream, right?
Yes.
I saw like a fig Newton commercial because it's a fig Newton.
Yeah, fig Newton is like if you put those two next to each other, they're in different
planets.
Exactly.
I see.
Well, allegedly, I think just a big giant blocks of sugar.
Which is pretty much what I love the bias, which is why my home, me over here.
Yeah.
You have to keep it up.
I have single parent family for kids.
We're fighting over the food in the house, too.
I've never broken out of that.
And we'll be fine.
We need to break the milk.
We can weaken more.
We can introduce you to a track called Sugar Coded Lies.
Really?
Yeah.
I'd be very interested.
We'll get you on the sugar because it's nice.
Yeah.
And you'd think it'd be like, juggle yelling at you.
Don't whatever, but it's a pragmatic explanation of what your mind is doing right now.
And what it shouldn't be doing and what it should be doing.
And you'd be like, oh, okay.
And psychological warfare that can help.
Yes.
Oh, big time.
Basically, it's like, you mentioned that it's an album.
It's an, oh, yeah.
It's an album with tracks.
On iTunes.
Jockel tracks.
I tune Amazon music, like all these things.
Yeah.
And you know what, you, you probably sent here thinking, like, okay, that's a neat little idea that,
you know, echo came up with and made Jockel do this and Uncle.
That album.
Number one spoken word album on iTunes.
Four?
I don't know.
I lost like, like, 38 straight weeks.
You kidding.
Number one.
Yeah.
Bad ass.
No big deal.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Say that when echo's like, dude, you just kind of, you know, just, just, you know, these things that I'm asking you about.
You kind of just like, you know, hammer it and I'll just record it.
Yeah.
It's basically like, okay.
So I used to have this thing.
You do not need more of this thing.
Where you know when you're like, okay, I'm working out this day.
This is, you know, I'm just doing this day.
And when it comes time to work out and I've a gym at my house now.
So I'm like, oh, maybe I'll do it.
I meant to do it at noon.
I'm into it tonight.
I don't feel like doing it around.
I'm doing it tonight.
And then you know accountability.
Yeah.
Nobody's watching.
You can do it.
Yeah.
When I feel like a little bit marching some coffee, whatever.
It's right outside, you know, kind of.
I totally get it.
Yeah.
And that night turns into hell, do it tomorrow.
So you basically turn a workout day into a rest day.
And this helps you turn on your motivation again.
Yeah.
And it's again.
It's not like a motivational thing.
It's like, okay.
This is, it's joccal saying it.
So okay.
There's that.
But it's like, it's saying, okay.
This is what's going on.
What's your thinking right now?
This is what you shouldn't be thinking right now.
This is what you should be thinking right now.
Okay.
There you go.
Go.
It's in your like, the thing that I find about him is because it is me talking.
Yeah.
I find it.
They're, they're very, um, very tight arguments.
Yeah.
You know get done listening and you go.
You know what?
I still find a little hole in his argument.
You know, I think this one sugar code is one will be buys it.
Not going to be happy.
No.
You're like, you know what?
This is a big deal.
Yeah.
You know, you might be the ultimate test case.
I will be the ultimate.
I don't care.
I don't care who's around me.
Ben, if like, I get that craving for sugar.
We would travel in the other day.
What I get?
Sweet tea.
Oh, dang.
Why sugar sugar.
Sugar.
But keep it in mind.
I'm going to ruin you.
No, your mom is.
I know.
I can't.
Yeah.
She's like, you know, you're like, hey, you want to try these things.
I know what it is.
And you said, man, you've got to try this buckle on my mom's.
I don't know.
I know it's sweet, right?
And you go like, yeah, it is.
I go like this.
You've had Spartan buckle.
Yeah, I was like, you know, you know, no, we deal.
And, you know, we've been lately been saying, like, you know, the discipline won't allow it.
That's true.
Yeah.
That's the new between the people.
You know, when we, you know, maybe see each other, maybe taking a prayer that we shouldn't be taking.
And we're going off the path and on to the path of weakness.
You know, I might be like, hey, I go, you know, that's cool and everything.
The discipline won't allow that.
Oh, man.
So that's awesome.
You know, yesterday, you know, you're dangling this custom homemade buckle of a and my mom's there.
And your mom's there.
Actually, like, and I know, I can see her.
She looks like she arrived from Greece three days ago to make the buckle of a.
You know, like, okay, I'll have one, right?
So I had one yesterday.
And then the discipline went an allowing more.
Today, I had nine of them.
I had three of them.
Sugar coated lies, uh, buckle of a.
Yeah.
My mom was going to get called to make buckle of a.
We're just going to put the original buckle of a person.
We got the maple syrup.
Yeah.
But yeah, but keep in mind, though, with these tracks, you got to be on that path though.
It's not like you're like, hey, I eat too much.
Let me listen to this track.
It's not that.
It's like, okay, my plan is to straight up clean up my whole shit.
Like, my plan is to say, you've already found a bit of motivation.
Yes, you're motivated.
You're on the path.
But it's on the weakness moments, the moment we.
We can see like, okay, I'm going to rest today.
I'm going to, you know, whatever.
Is that kind of, yeah?
I do that.
I do.
We all do.
That's, that's probably why a lot of people get that album.
Yeah.
With tracks.
You know what I do?
I'm like, you're actually not used to do.
No, no, what I would do is this.
I'd be like, especially when I was training for competition.
I'm going to eat this will be pie.
I would eat it and I would run two miles.
Yeah.
I was just, you've earned it.
Freaking right.
Yeah.
You're in it.
Freaking right.
I do that, too.
Like, like, it.
And it's like, I try and preempt weakness with hardcore exercise.
Yeah, you pay attention.
Which by the way, often mitigates.
Yeah, it takes like, like, oh, I want to have a mint chocolate chip milkshake.
Cool.
I can have a mint chocolate chip milkshake as soon as I do 30 clean and jerks.
Okay.
And that I can do that.
And that's cool.
But then, but the time you get done, you're like, you know what I want that thing.
I infused my brain with discipline from the bar.
It went from the bar into my hands and into my brain.
Yeah.
That's how I don't worry.
In the simplest one is buries.
Yeah.
Burpees.
Like, okay.
You know what?
I can have this if I do a hundred burpees.
That takes less than 10 minutes.
We had this thing the other day and I talked about it.
I was like, oh, I know it's all the way up there.
And I said, I've got one of lazy loser.
You don't even deserve ice cream.
I didn't have it.
Yeah.
Because I said, you're a pathetic.
If you're actually questioning whether it's worth it.
God, I'm not going to be like, you don't need this at all.
And anyway, shape or form.
If you were thinking it wasn't worth 27 steps to get to the RV, grab the mint
chocolate chip.
Briler's ice cream.
I think it's a good idea.
But there are secret objects.
There aren't objects hidden in steps to get to the RV.
Grab the mint chocolate chip.
Briler's ice cream.
Bring it back down.
Scoop it into it.
Letting melt a little bit.
Just sit there and get after it.
Not best.
That's so good.
You'd like a little melt to the ice cream.
Just a little melt.
You like it, insolence.
It's here.
It kind of.
It's, you basically take ice cream.
And you put milking it and you start around. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I do
Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay
Let's let's all be tattooing now and consider what we're talking about right now the pleasures of gains bull
The problem is chocolate chip ice cream
I would walk barefoot and two feet of snow to that friggin RV
Yeah, that's like this guy no he was that
I know my compliment that are does that negative repository? No yours is worse. It's weird because you have a better result
But your disc or your worn path is worth because he was like hey, I'm gonna be weak
I have this one that you know weak to be weak. Yeah, that was him that day
Yeah, but you could that's rationalize because the end you know the means and the end yeah situation thing is I actually embarrassed myself
Yeah, yeah, that's what it was I just he made myself and I said I can't believe I'm even questioning the fact if I would take 27 steps to my
Orbent the ice cream the fact that I'm even thinking that way. I don't you don't I should I should he's myself
Right, this is ridiculous and pathetic and just stop and so yeah, I didn't get the ice cream that night
But the mint chocolate chip ice cream first year is is a real thing and it's even
It's my favorite flavor. Yeah, yeah, I don't even know the introduction is my flavors although when I wasn't Montana
Ustrax lose tracks in most tracks. Yes, lose tracks. That's the other that's the other. Okay
I'm not gonna you know I understand and I saw it and I dig it, but it's just it's very surprising
You talk you can you can close the moves track with a scoop of mint chocolate chip. I've never done that that sounds deranged
It's like it would
She's she's in wine
She's
Just close it's just a fish in touch is that what she do is that what she did now?
I want to my buddies in the in the trees
Is it is a awesome guy badass wrestler
Result was a champion wrestler in college and was on the Olympic team
Didn't compete for variety reasons that I won't talk about
But he was friends with Dan Sever you remember Danny. Oh, yeah, yeah early US and so
So and so I don't know why this just came to my mind. Oh, I know why did so he would say
They knew each other they were friends and
Whenever he'd see Danny Severn Danny Severn was a heavyweight and
This buddy mine was cutting weight, you know, but he was a big guy. He was like whatever
Like 200 pounds being a cut to 190 whatever and he would call Dan Severn a pop liquor
Meaning like you're you're just your guy that's over there
You're eating everything and when you get done eating you're licking the pot right and picture you with the smile
You got a straight up on liquor
You get to the end of that bowl. You're like oh, I'm getting the rest of this mid-Jogg. My
sprievers getting into my belly now my my my kids have followed the path of my wife
And they'll come up to me when I'm eating junk food and they'll be like dad you got moops
You don't need that oh, they're brutal
A lot of poor first situation. Yeah, it is. I'm surprised you're not something like a 84 pounds
I should be yeah, yeah, yeah, it's scarred
And to me actually what would we say that's the freedom part but the thing is you got to be on the path
Right, so like yes, you know how they discipline equals freedom right so you know you grab the ice cream
Yeah, yeah, I had to pull that one yeah for the first time. I was at a I was at a little like family get together
And there was a birthday party for a friend of the family blah blah blah
And there was a grandmother there
So a grandmother from these kids I had a birthday party blah blah blah
So and she's a German woman and you know
She kind of knows what's going on a little bit with the game with what's going on with everything and so I'm sitting there indeed
There's like a
You know straight up. This is rough. You know the ice cream cakes
And you can get a mint chocolate. Do I?
No, okay, I just cream so the cake is a mint chocolate chip ice cream cake talking to a vacuum yeah, so I'm talking to a pot maker
So so I'm like okay, you know what I'm gonna get some of that mint chocolate chip ice cream
It's got those what I don't even know what it is those little black like crum things that
Yeah, I got them like a cake bar in there too. We're talking this is a situation needs to be you know
We need to get in on this thing real quick
You and it's a little bit melted so soft so anyways
I'm cutting a piece of the cake not a big piece not a small piece, but you know I like a medium piece
Get it on my plate stick my fork and this woman is German woman who's super cool
She's like I thought you were about the discipline and I was like dang
And she called me out and I looked at her and I said you know what I have the discipline and that allows me to have freedom sometimes to
Mint chocolate chip ice cream cakes, which I'm about to do. Thank you
That's what you say this is the freedom part, but like I said you gotta be on the path
We gotta be in the game. You can't just be like this is the freedom part every single day
No, doesn't work that way
Also, jocquay T you can get that you know what it does if you're gonna start dead lifting again
You should get drink a little bit more jocquay T because it will increase your deadlift to 8,000 pounds
And this is proven
Wow proven across the board. I'm on everyone books. I got some books if you want to get them
Extreme ownership book about leadership book about combat leadership
You can get that you can get it for yourself
And you can get it for your team and you can get it for above and below you in the chain of command
It's gonna make your life easier whenever everyone's on board
If you got kids or you know kids you can pick them up a book called Way of the Warrior kid
And what that's gonna do is gonna lay out a path actually. Yes a path
Yeah, that a kid who who doesn't have a path most kids don't have a path
The book will give them the path and the path leads them to being stronger smarter and better
So my daughter read it. She loved it that is awesome and she is
an individual
And she speaks her mind and I was like Chloe. No, really what do you think she was?
I love that book and she came up
And she wanted you to sign it. Yes, you wanted me to get her copy back at home today
Which I failed that we get a tomorrow something yeah, okay tomorrow awesome
That's yeah, I appreciate it and and yeah straight up like when you ask kids
How did you like it which I always ask kids how they like it and because you know kids like you said kids are gonna tell you the truth
Yeah, yeah, and so so far
I have not had a kid go a marginal
Part of it should hold a marginal you know all right you kind of missed the mark, but you know
entertaining not that but you know whatever they should make that shouldn't do a movie or something
Oh, they're gonna make it into a movie
Also another book coming out October 17th discipline equals freedom field manual
That will also show you the path
It's gonna show you the it's gonna show you one path
The path with discipline grab that book
If you need help at your business I have a business called echelon front with my brother-lave Babin and
He was we work together in the seal teams battle over money
We took the lessons that we learned we wrote that book
Extreme ownership and the reason we wrote that book extreme ownership is because we had people that we were consulting asking us to write down the lessons learned
So there it is
If you want us to come work with you. It's life-babin me
J.P. to know
Dave Burke you know who they are
email us info at echelon front.com
Also the monster September 14th and 15th in San Diego, California
We could throw out the like game changer which definitely has been said about it, but I'm gonna say this
It's not this fantasy game changer thing. It's actual
Pragmatic
Tactics and strategies that you can use as a leader as a follower in business and in life
Come to the monster in San Diego September 14th and 15th
You can register for the for the monster at
Extreme ownership.com
Also until the monster
If you want to communicate with us you can do that we can all be found
on something that we talked about earlier tonight the interwebs
Twitter
Instagram
And that's facey bull
a
Echo is at echo Charles
Pete is
At
Origin we talking Instagram we talking Twitter Instagram where you at origin USA
Twitter where you at at origin B JJ has in Brazilian J2 awesome. I am at jokker willing
If you want to hit us up you can hit us there echo when you clothing song clothing closing closing thoughts
We got a lot of clothing thoughts and yeah closing thoughts. No, that fit Pete the man
Great to finally meet you in person
I appreciate that. I don't thank you guys
Man, I'm honored to be at the table with you both and
Just matter respect for everything you guys do
I just glad to be here with you and
Experiences also I want to thank my wife Amanda for putting up with my crazy shit and midnight ideas and
allowing me the flexibility to
live this life
Which is important in relationship and might kids
Keegan and Chloe
Who are the ones I work for every day day and day out?
That family
Good things coming
Yeah, well for me, you know, I wish I would have met you 20 years ago
For whatever reason I didn't I wish I would have met you 10 years ago for whatever reason I didn't
Met you six months ago and
Just looking at what you've done. I'm telling you and if if I haven't made it perfectly clear today
What you've done to this point already is?
Is incredible I don't I don't even it's the the possibilities of you pulling off what you've already pulled off
Is incredible and what's what's cool is it's like when when a when a space shuttle takes off
The hardest part of the journey is that first part getting breaking away from gravity of Earth and
What you've already done you've cleared the gravity of Earth and now you're on track and it's it's
You know just nothing but respect for what you did
I know that you have used your hands to make this happen you're mine to make this happen and I just respect everything
You've done so far talking to the team here and the attitude that they have everybody has that attitude and and just for me to
Come in and be a part of that is just outstanding. I look forward to being a part of this team
I look forward to getting to know the team when I can come up here, which is hard
But to see the people on this team is is phenomenal and I can't wait to see where it goes
So thanks for coming on and this is guaranteed not be the last time
uh
And of course
to the military
Folks overseas right now thanks for allowing it
us to make this podcast we could not make this podcast without your service and sacrifice
to the police and all law enforcement to firefighters
EMTs and other first responders again
You allow us to make this podcast and we are thankful for it and
finally
And of course
to the working class of America
Thanks for doing what you do day after day working
sweating
bleeding
Building calices
While you build our great country thank you for holding the line
And thank you for getting after it
So until next time
This is Pete Roberts and echo and jacco
Out